>> WE HAVE NEVER SEEN A MARKET
LIKE THIS.
>> THERE IS NO PLACE REALLY
HEDGE YOURSELF AND THAT CREATES
A SCARY SITUATION.
>> THERE IS A LOT OF PESSIMISM.
>> VOLATILITY APPEARS TO BE THE
THEME IN THE NEAR FUTURE.
ANNOUNCER:
THIS IS BLOOMBERG SURVEILLANCE
WITH THE JONATHAN FERRO, LISA
ABRAMOWICZ, AND ANNMARIE
HORDERN. JONATHAN:
LIVE FROM NEW YORK CITY, GOOD
MORNING, GOOD MORNING.
COMING INTO WEDNESDAY, DAZED
AND CONFUSED.
MIXED MESSAGES OUT OF THE WHITE
HOUSE WHAT SONG MARKETS.
REPORTS SUGGEST IRAN IS
BEGINNING TO LAY MINES IN THE
STRAIT OF HORMUZ.
THE IEA IS PROPOSING A MAJOR
RELEASE OF ENERGY RESERVES TO
HELP CAP PRICES.
THAT STORY IS WHERE WE BEGIN
THIS HOUR.
THE INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY
PROPOSING THE LARGEST EVER
RELEASE OF OIL RESERVES
ACCORDING TO A PERSON FAMILIAR
WITH THE MATTER.
THE RELEASE COULD BE IN THE
RANGE OF ABOUT 300 TO 400
MILLION BARRELS.
A DECISION ON THAT PROPOSAL
COULD COME AS SOON AS TODAY.
LISA:
THIS IS THE REASON THE IEA WAS
CREATED IN 1974, EXACTLY THIS
TYPE OF SHOCK.
THE STRAIT OF HORMUZ GETTING
SHUT DOWN.
THIS TYPE OF RESPONSE WOULD BE
UNPRECEDENTED BUT WOULD ACCOUNT
FOR SOME 120 DAYS OF SUPPLY
GLOBALLY.
DO THEY WANT TO DO THIS AT THIS
POINT GIVEN THE FACT THAT THERE
IS A REAL QUESTION ABOUT HOW
VULNERABLE SUPPLIES ARE GOING
FORWARD AND HOW WILLING PEOPLE
WILL BE TO RAPIDLY INCREASE
THOSE DEPOSITS ONCE THE CRISIS
IS OVER. JONATHAN:
COMPARE AND CONTRAST THIS
PROPOSAL TO THE RELEASE THE
ENERGY SHOCK OF 2022 AND THAT
TELLS YOU EVERYTHING YOU NEED
TO KNOW ABOUT HOW SERIOUSLY
THEY ARE TAKING THIS. ANNMARIE:
WE SAW TWO RELEASES IN 2022
WHEN RUSSIA INVADED UKRAINE.
WHAT WAS INTERESTING IS THE
MARKET REACTION.
WE SAW THE DIFFERENT REACTION
IEA MEMBERS WANTED TO TAKE.
THEY WERE CONCERNED IF THEY ARE
RELEASING THIS MUCH OIL THEY
MUST BE VERY CONCERNED ABOUT
HOW MANY BARRELS WILL BE COMING
OFF THE MARKET.
YOU CAN POTENTIALLY
SEE THIS HAVE A DIFFERENT
EFFECT THAN THE WHITE HOUSE
WANTS TO SEE BECAUSE THIS
SIGNALS TO THE MARKET THIS IS
NOT ENDING SOON AND POTENTIALLY
THERE IS CONCERN DOWN THE LINE
FOR OIL PRICES TO REMAIN
ELEVATED. JONATHAN:
$92 A BARREL ON BRENT.
BRAMO AND I ARE SUPER HAPPY
THAT ANNMARIE ARE BACK BECAUSE
NEITHER OF US WANT TO TALK
ABOUT THIS.
SECRETARY WRIGHT POSTING ON
SOCIAL MEDIA THAT A SHIP WAS
ESCORTED THROUGH THE STRAIT OF
HORMUZ.
THE POST WAS DELETED AND THE
WHITE HOUSE TONIGHT IT HAPPENED.
WHAT HAPPENED YESTERDAY?
ANNMARIE:
THE PRESS SECRETARY WAS SENT
OUT FOR CLEANUP SAYING THE U.S.
NAVY DID NOT ESCORT A VESSEL
THROUGH THE STRAIT OF HORMUZ.
I SPOKE TO SOME INDIVIDUALS
YESTERDAY WHO SAID THAT WHAT
THEY'RE HEARING INSIDE THE
WHITE HOUSE IS THEY WILL DO
"WHATEVER IT TAKES"
TO MAKE SURE OIL PRICES DO NOT
GO ABOVE 00 WHICH IS WHY
THERE IS SPECULATION THAT THIS
WAS NOT JUST A STAFFER MISTAKE.
WHICH, BY THE WAY, THAT IS RUDE
TO A STAFFER.
WE ARE TALKING ABOUT MILITARY
ACTION, SOMETHING INCREDIBLY
SERIOUS.
THAT IS WHY PEOPLE THINK IS
POTENTIALLY THE WHITE HOUSE
MAKING SURE THEY CAN DO
WHATEVER IT TAKES, INCLUDING
FAKE TWEETS, TO KEEP PRICES
DEPRESSED. JONATHAN:
FACTS ON THE GROUND, THE U.K.
NAVY SAID THAT THREE VESSELS
WERE HIT WITH PROJECTILES AND
THE STRAIT OF HORMUZ.
PART OF THE PR, THE FACTS ON
THE GROUND ARE STILL CONCERNING.
LISA: THAT IS ONE REASON WHY AN
UNPRECEDENTED RELEASE FROM THE
IEA IS NOT ENOUGH TO GET OIL
PRICES LOWER TODAY.
YOU HAVE THEM RISING BECAUSE
THOSE ATTACKS THAT WE KNOW HAVE
ALREADY BEEN MORE THAN 10 SENSE
THE CONFLICT BEGAN IS THE
REASON WHY NO SHIP REALLY WANTS
TO TRY TRAVERSING THAT KEY
WATERWAY.
THE REASON WHY, MANY PEOPLE ARE
SAYING THIS COULD GO ON FOR A
WHILE AND BE A BIG DRAG ON
SUPPLY. JONATHAN:
EQUITY FUTURES DOWN .2% ON THE
S&P 500.
COMING UP, MARKETS WHIPSAWED BY
HEADLINES.
CFRA AS ORACLE EARNINGS AND
PRESS WALL STREET.
AND MICHAEL REID LOOKING AHEAD
TO THE LATEST READ ON INFLATION.
JOUMANNA BERCETCHE OUT OF DUBAI.
WHAT IS THE LATEST?
LET'S CONFRONT THE FACTS ON THE
GROUND. DO YOU SEE ANY SIGN OF
DE-ESCALATION? JOUMANNA: NO.
IT IS DAY 12 OF THIS WORK.
IF ANYTHING, THINGS CONTINUE TO
BE AMPLIFIED.
EVEN PETE HEGSETH SAYING
YESTERDAY THAT TUESDAY WAS
THEIR BUSIEST DAY YET SINCE THE
START OF THE WAR IN TERMS OF
MILITARY OPERATIONS.
THE JOINT MILITARY OPERATIONS
THE U.S.
IS CONDUCTING ALONGSIDE ISRAEL.
ONE NEW FRONT YOU WERE TALKING
ABOUT HAS OPENED UP, THE
MARITIME FRONT.
THE CENTRAL COMMAND RELEASING
FOOTAGE OF 16 IRANIAN VESSELS
THAT HAVE THE ABILITY TO LOAD
MINES ON THE STRAIT WERE TAKEN
DOWN. IT'S UNCLEAR IF IRAN HAS
ACTUALLY GONE AHEAD WITH
LOADING THE STRAIT WITH THESE
EXPLOSIVE DEVICES.
PRESIDENT TRUMP HAS WARNED THEM
NOT TO DO IT.
THE POINT IS, EVEN IF THEY
HAVEN'T THE THREAT OF THESE
MINES IS ENOUGH TO DETER MANY
VESSELS FROM PASSING THROUGH
THE STRAIT.
THREE VESSELS WERE REPORTED TO
HAVE BEEN HIT BY INTERCEPTED
PROJECTILES, WHICH CAUSED
UNLIMITED DAMAGE BUT
UNDERSCORES THE RISK OF SAFETY
AND SECURITY FOR MANY OF THESE
VESSELS WHO WERE EVEN
CONSIDERING GOING THROUGH THE
STRAIT.
FOR ALL INTENTS AND PURPOSES
THE STRAIT OF HORMUZ REMAINS
EFFECTIVELY SHUT AND WILL
CONTINUE TO HAVE RAMIFICATIONS
ON GLOBAL MARKETS.
AT THE SAME TIME, THE INTENSITY
OF THE OPERATIONS CONTINUES.
IRAN CONTINUES TO LASH BACK AT
THE GULF STATES.
WE ARE HEARING REPORTS OF
CATARRH INTERCEPTING MORE
MISSILES.
SIRENS GOING OFF IN BAHRAIN.
AIRLINES DIVERTING FLIGHTS AWAY
FROM THE BAHA
RAINI AIRPORT.
LEADING TO LIMITED DAMAGE BUT
SUSPENSION OF OPERATIONS.
COLLEAGUES AND ISRAEL ARE
REPORTING THAT IN TERMS OF
OVERNIGHT ACTIVITY, YESTERDAY
WAS ONE OF THE MOST INTENSE
WE'VE SEEN SINCE THE BEGINNING
OF THIS WAR.
SO, REALLY NO SIGN THAT ALL
THINGS ARE LEADING UP.
IF ANYTHING, WE ARE IN A VERY
DIFFERENT PLACE THAN 24 HOURS
AGO WHEN PRESIDENT TRUMP
SUGGESTED THE WAR WAS PERHAPS
CLOSE TO COMPLETION.
THE REALITY ON THE GROUND
PAINTS A VERY DIFFERENT PICTURE.
JONATHAN: STAY SAFE.
IT IS GOOD TO SEE YOU.
JOUMANNA BERCETCHE OUT OF DUBAI
LEADING OUR COVERAGE OF THE WAR
AS THE CONFLICT RAGES ON.
EVEN IF YOU GET A CEASE-FIRE
AND YOU SEE THE DE-ESCALATION
IT WILL TAKE TIME TO GET THINGS
MOVING AGAIN FROM THE SHIPPING
COMPANY TO THE WALL STREET
JOURNAL.
THEY WOULD NEED ABOUT 10 DAYS
TO RESUME OPERATIONS IN CASE OF
A CEASE FIRE.
THE CEO TO THE WALL STREET
JOURNAL MOMENTS AGO. LISA:
THEY HAVE 10 SHIPS IN THE GULF.
THIS IS NOT JUST OIL.
IT IS NOT JUST OIL, IT IS
FERTILIZER AND PRODUCTS THAT
COULD HAVE WIDE-RANGING
RAMIFICATIONS AND THERE IS A
DELAY TIME. JONATHAN:
WE ARE MAINTAINING OUR OUTLOOK
FOR MORE MODEST BUT VOLATILE
POSITIVE SINGLE-DIGIT RETURNS
IN U.S. STOCKS FOR 2027.
STEVE, WELCOME TO THE PROGRAM.
I READ THE NOTE, LET'S WORK
THROUGH IT.
DO YOU BELIEVE THIS IS ANOTHER
BRICK IN A CLAIMABLE WALL OF
WORRY? STEVE:
THERE'S A FINE LINE BETWEEN A
WALL OF WORRY AND A BRICK WALL.
FOR THE MOMENT WE THINK THAT IT
IS ANOTHER BRICK.
AS YOU HAVE BEEN HIGHLIGHTING
IT IS REALLY A MATTER OF HOW
LONG THIS GOES ON.
THE MARKET IS TRYING TO LOOK
THROUGH THE VALLEY.
TO THE OTHER SIDE OF THE VALLEY.
YOU CAN SEE THAT IN THE SHAPE
OF THE YIELD CURVE, THE SHAPE
OF THE VOLCKER, THE FUTURES
MARKET.
THE VOLATILITY INDEX, THE VOL
ON THE OUTSIDE OF THE CURVE IS
IN THE LOW 20'S.
IT IS STILL HIGHER THAN AT THE
BEGINNING OF THE YEAR,
VOLATILITY AND OIL.
EVEN IF YOU GO OUT FURTHER,
WHICH IS WHAT THE MARKET, THE
STOCKS, ARE PRICING OFF OF.
WE TALKED ON YOUR SHOW THAT THE
OIL MARKET IS A SPOT MARKET
THAT HAS TO TRADE COMMODITIES
ON A DAILY BASIS.
THE STOCK MARKET IS LOOKING AT
THE FUTURE PRICE OF OIL.
THAT PRICE IS LOWER.
THE LONGER THIS GOES ON THE
FUTURE AND THE PRESENT START TO
COMBINE.
I THINK YOU'RE RIGHT TO BE
FOCUSING ON HOW LONG THIS LASTS.
THE MARKET IS TRYING TO LOOK
THROUGH THIS.
IT'S FORTUNATE THAT WE CUT OUR
TARGET PRICE ON THE S&P PRIOR
TO THIS WHOLE THING HAPPENING.
THAT WAS PURE LUCK, I SUPPOSE.
THE REASON WE DID THAT WAS WE
DID ANTICIPATE SOME KIND OF
CORRECTION, AND WE ARE SETTING
THE LEVELS AT WHICH WE WOULD
REENTER THE MARKET WITH NEW
CASH.
I THINK IF YOUR TARGET ON THE
S&P IS LOWER, WHICH IT IS FOR
US, YOU NEED A LITTLE MORE
UPSIDE BEFORE YOU CAN STEP IN,
ESPECIALLY IN A SITUATION LIKE
THIS.
FOR NOW, WE ARE HOLDING FIRM.
WE ARE WATCHING EVENTS LIKE YOU
ARE AND WAITING TO SEE IF AND
WHEN THE END COMES NEAR.
ONE THING IS FOR SURE.
IT WILL END.
THAT'S NOT A QUESTION.
THE QUESTION IS, HOW LONG?
IT WILL END WITH REGIME CHANGE
OR WITH SOME SORT OF CEASE FIRE
AND A HOBBLED IRANIAN REGIME,
BUT ONE WAY OR ANOTHER THIS
WILL END. LISA:
YOU SAID THE ONE CHALLENGE TO
YOUR RELATIVELY CONSTRUCTIVE
VIEW FOR THE YEAR AHEAD OF
SINGLE-DIGIT RETURNS UNTIL 2027
WAS SUSTAINED LEVELS OF $90 OR
ABOVE OF CRUDE.
I'M WONDERING, WHAT DOES
SUSTAINED MEAN?
HOW LONG DOES IT HAVE TO REMAIN
ABOVE $90 FOR YOU TO MATERIALLY
CHANGE YOUR VIEW? STEPHEN:
I DON'T KNOW WE HAVE A PRECISE
NUMBER OF DAYS, LISA.
SOMEWHERE IN THE 2 TO 3 MONTH
RANGE.
IF YOU HAD $90 THAT LONG YOU
WILL HAVE TWO IMPACTS THAT WILL
HAVE TO CAUSE US AND OTHERS TO
DROP THEIR ECONOMIC OUTLOOK IN
TERMS OF THE GROWTH RATE.
WE ARE STILL AT 2%, 3% GROWTH
THIS YEAR AND WE HAVE EARNINGS
VERY STRONG THIS YEAR AND NEXT.
IF YOU GO THREE MONTHS OR SO
YOU WILL REALLY START TO IMPACT
ECONOMIC ACTIVITY, PARTICULARLY
ON THE LOW END OF THE
CONSUMPTION BANDWAGON, WHICH IS
WHERE WE WERE EXPECTING A
RECOVERY THIS YEAR BECAUSE OF
ALL THE THINGS GOING ON WITH
ONE BIG, BEAUTIFUL BILL.
THE LONGER IT GOES ON, THE
HIGHER THE RISK THAT THIS ONE
-TIME PRICE IMPULSE GETS
NORMALIZED AND FED INTO A
BROADER INFLATION IN THE
ECONOMY, WHICH THEN TAKES OFF
THE TABLE THE RATE BECAUSE THAT
WE HAVE IN OUR FORECAST. WE
HAVE TWO TO THREE CUTS OUT
THERE OVER THE NEXT 12 MONTHS,
WHICH WE THINK WE ARE STILL ON
TRACK FOR.
IF OIL STAYS UP FOR TWO OR
THREE MONTHS, MAYBE PEOPLE
START ASKING FOR RAISES AGAINST
THAT PRICE AND IT BLEEDS INTO A
BROADER INFLATION. JONATHAN:
I WANT TO DEAL WITH THE WORD
DEFENSIVE.
IT IS BEING THROWN AROUND A LOT.
BEING DEFENSIVE MEANS DIFFERENT
THINGS AT DIFFERENT TIMES AND
IS HIGHLY DEPENDENT ON THE
SHOCK.
THERE IS TIME THAT TEC HAS
DEFENSIVE QUALITIES, STAPLES IS
THE USUAL ONE, BUT THIS IS
DIFFERENT.
WHAT IS DEFENSIVE IN A MOMENT
LIKE THIS ONE? STEPHEN:
WE THINK SOME OF THESE HARD
ASSET COMPANIES.
WE WERE TALKING ABOUT THIS LAST
TIME. MORE THAN THE VALUE SPACE.
CERTAINLY DEFENSE COMPANIES ARE
DEFENSIVE RIGHT NOW BECAUSE
THEY ARE COMPANIES THAT ARE
ALSO SEEING GOOD, STRONG
TOPLINE GROWTH FOR OBVIOUS
REASONS.
ENERGY COMPANIES ARE BIG STOCKS
IN THE VALUE INDICES.
PHARMA COMPANIES, STRONG
DIVIDENDS, BROADLY DIVERSIFIED,
AND WELL DEFENDED PRODUCT
MOATS, IF YOU WILL.
IT IS COMPANIES THAT ARE
BROADLY DIVERSIFIED, NOT AS
RELIANT ON, YOU KNOW, WHERE THE
MARKET IS VALUED, HAVE GOOD
DIVIDEND YIELD, AND IN A
SINGLE-DIGIT RETURN ENVIRONMENT
YIELDS A 4%, 3% START TO LOOK
MORE ATTRACTIVE IF THE MARKET
HAS GONE UP 20% NO ONE CARES
ABOUT THE DIVIDEND YIELD.
THOSE ARE THE KINDS OF
DEFENSIVE AREAS THAT WE LIKE
HERE.
WE LIKE THEM COMING INTO THIS.
THEY HAVE ACTUALLY
UNDERPERFORMED, SOME OF THEM.
NOT ALL.
FINANCIALS HAVE UNDERPERFORMED,
OBVIOUSLY.
WE LIKE THOSE AREAS HERE,
ESPECIALLY COMING OUT OF THIS.
PROVIDED WE DON'T HAVE TO TAKE
ANOTHER HAIRCUT TO OUR ECONOMIC
GROWTH. JONATHAN:
THAT IS THE IF RIGHT NOW.
GOOD TO SEE YOU. STEPHEN AUTH.
INVESTORS, MARKET PARTICIPANTS,
ARE ITCHING TO ROTATE INTO
DISCRETIONARY BUCKETS OF STOCKS
TO GET THE EXPOSURE TO A
CYCLICAL BOUNCE IN THE YEAR
AHEAD.
I $90 CRUDE COMPROMISES THAT
OUTLOOK. LISA:
IF YOU HAVE THAT FOR 20 DAYS OR
30 DAYS OR BEYOND, YOU WONDER,
HOW DO PEOPLE OFFSET THE COST
OF LIVING THAT IS GOING UP IN A
MATERIAL WAY?
THIS IS WHY PEOPLE HAVE PRICED
THIS IN AS INFLATIONARY AND
DIRECT POLICY RESPONSE.
DEUTSCHE BANK, THE ONE KEY THAT
COULD DESTROY THE ECONOMY AS IF
POLICYMAKERS HAD TO BE HAWKISH
IN RESPONSE TO WHAT WE ARE
SEEING NOW. ANNMARIE:
THEY WILL BE FORCED TO DO
SOMETHING WHICH IS WHY THE IEA
WILL ACT.
THE THRESHOLD FOR THE WHITE
HOUSE IS 00 A BARREL AND MAY
BE INVESTORS IT IS $90 A BARREL
BUT WE ARE CLOSE NOW.
GAS PRICES ACROSS THE UNITED
STATES FOUR DOLLARS A GALLON
THAN THREE. JONATHAN:
MIXED
MESSAGING ON IRAN.
>> I CAN CONFIRM THE NAVY HAS
NOT ESCORTED A VESSEL AT THIS
TIME BUT THAT IS AN OPTION THE
PRESIDENT SAID HE WILL UTILIZE
IF AND WHEN IT IS NECESSARY AT
THE APPROPRIATE TIME. JONATHAN:
AT BEST MISCOMMUNICATION AND AT
WORST MANIPULATION.
NEXT, TOBIN MARCUS OF WOLFE
RESEARCH.
GOOD MORNING, GOOD MORNING. ♪
JONATHAN:
CRUDE HAS BEEN ON QUITE A RIDE,
OFF SESSION HIGHS.
WTI, 86.4 NINE.
EQUITIES BOLO SESSION LOWS.
CHECK OUT THE EQUITY MARKET.
THE S&P, THE NASDAQ, THE
RUSSELL COME THE S&P JUST ABOUT
UNCHANGED ON THE SESSION.
A SNEAK PEEK AT THE
CONVERSATION OF THE ECB, THE
EURO AROUND 1.16. LISA:
THE IDEA THAT THEY HAVE TO
COUNTER THE READTHROUGH, WHICH
WILL BE HIGHER ENERGY PRICES
MORE IMMEDIATELY.
YOU WONDER WHY THE EURO IS
WEAKENING ON THAT GIVEN THE
FACT THAT THIS IS DIRECTLY
TRANSLATING INTO WEAKER GROWTH
AND NERVOUSNESS ABOUT THE
STABILITY.
IT SHOWS YOU HOW VOLATILE RIGHT
NOW, EVEN IF YOU GET THE ACTION
RIGHT, GETTING THE TRADE RIGHT
IN MARKETS IS A BIG FEAT.
JONATHAN:
SHOULD I BRING YOU A WELL-KNOWN
OPENING STATEMENT FROM AN ECB
DECISION?
>25 BASIS POINT TO COUNTER THE
INCREASING REST OR PRICE
STABILITY.
A DIRECT QUOTE FROM THE ECB IN
JULY 2008, HIKING INTEREST
RATES BECAUSE OF WHERE ENERGY
WAS DESPITE THE RISKS ELSEWHERE.
LISA:
THIS IS THE REASON WHY A LOT OF
PEOPLE ARE SAYING, HOW LONG IS
THIS INFLATIONARY BEFORE IT
BECOMES DEFLATIONARY?
HOW LONG WILL IT BE THE CASE
BEFORE POLICYMAKERS HIKE RATES,
CARTEL GROWTH
AND WE END UP IN A RECESSIONARY
ENVIRONMENT? JONATHAN:
MIXED MESSAGING ON IRAN.
>> CAN YOU EXPLAIN WHY THE
ENERGY SECRETARY POSTED AND
APPEARS TO HAVE DELETED A POST
ON X SAYING THE U.S.
NAVY ESCORTED AN OIL TANKER
THROUGH THE STRAIT OF HORMUZ?
>> THE POST WAS TAKEN DOWN
QUICKLY AND I CAN CONFIRM THE
U.S.
NAVY HAS NOT ESCORTED A THINKER
OR VESSEL AT THIS TIME,
ALTHOUGH OF COURSE THAT IS AN
OPTION THE PRESIDENT HAS SAID
HE WILL ABSOLUTELY UTILIZE IF
AND WHEN NECESSARY AT THE
APPROPRIATE TIME. JONATHAN:
THE LATEST, CRUDE IS CLIMBING
AFTER MULTIPLE SHIPPING VESSELS
WERE ATTACKED IN THE STRAIT OF
HORMUZ.
THE WHITE HOUSE IS WALKING BACK
A STATEMENT THAT U.S.
FORCES ARE ESCORTING TANKERS
THROUGH THE WATERWAY.
TYLER KENDALL HAS MORE FROM
WASHINGTON. GOOD MORNING. TYLER:
GOOD MORNING.
SOME CONFUSION AFTER THE U.S.
ENERGY SECRETARY ERRONEOUSLY
POSTED AND DELETED A MESSAGE
SAYING THAT THE U.S.
NAVY SUCCESSFULLY ESCORTED A
TANKER THROUGH THE STRAIT OF
HORMUZ.
WE GOT A STATEMENT FROM THE
ENERGY DEPARTMENT SAYING THAT
THE POST WAS "INCORRECTLY
CAPTIONED BY DEPARTMENT OF
ENERGY STAFF."
IRAN SEIZED ON THE MOMENT WITH
THEIR FOREIGN MINISTER POSTING
ON X, ACCUSING THE U.S.
OF MARKET MANIPULATION.
IT CAME AFTER EARLIER IN THE
DAY THE CHAIR OF THE JOINT
CHIEFS OF STAFF INDICATED THE
MILITARY HAD NOT YET FINALIZED
PLANS FOR NAVAL TANKER ESCORTS
THE REMAINS READY AND PREPARED
TO DRAW UP THOSE SCENARIOS IF
NEEDED.
IRAN CONTINUES TO THREATEN
SHIPS IN THAT CRITICAL WATERWAY
AND HAS A RANGE OF TOOLS AT ITS
DISPOSAL, INCLUDING DIRECT
ATTACKS, HARASSMENT, LONG
CHECKPOINTS, AND POTENTIALLY
LAYING MINES.
IN A FLURRY OF POSTS ON TRUTH
SOCIAL PRESIDENT TRUMP FIRST
SAID THE U.S.
HAD NO REPORTS THAT IRAN WAS
LAYING MINDS BUT QUICKLY
BOASTED THAT THE U.S.
WAS TARGETING MINE-LAYING SHIPS
AND DESTROYED 10 INACTIVE MINE
BOATS.
THIS CONTINUES TO CONTRIBUTE TO
WHAT FEELS LIKE AN ESCALATION.
AS DISRUPTIONS CONTINUE YOU'VE
SPOKEN ON THE PROGRAM TO
A PERSON FAMILIAR SAYS THEY ARE
EYING A RELEASE FROM STRATEGIC
RESERVES.
WE KNOW THE ADMINISTRATION IS
EYEING OTHER POTENTIAL
SOLUTIONS AS THE HIGHER PRICES
HIT THE GAS PUMP.
A NEW POLL SHOWS THAT 67% OF
U.S.
ADULTS ARE CONCERNED THAT GAS
PRICES ARE GOING TO GO UP.
I WILL QUICKLY ADD THAT
PRESIDENT TRUMP IS RESUMING
WHAT THE WHITE HOUSE IS CALLING
HIS AFFORDABILITY TOUR TODAY
WITH STOPS IN KENTUCKY AND OHIO.
JONATHAN:
THE LATEST FROM TOBIN MARCUS OF
WOLFE RESEARCH, WRITING THE
TRUMP'S HOPE IS THAT THE
IRANIANS WILL SEE THAT THEY ARE
OVERMATCHED, REOPEN THE STRAIT
RATHER THAN FACE AND THREATENED
ESCALATION AND TO THROW
THEMSELVES ON THE MERCY OF THE
UNITED STATES.
HOW LIKELY IS IT THAT THE
IRANIANS WILL DO THAT? TOBIN:
I DON'T THINK IT IS VERY LIKELY
ANY TIME SOON.
THEY HAVE INDICATED PUBLICLY IN
CLEAR TERMS THAT THEY ARE
INTENDING TO CONTINUE.
IN OUR VIEW THEIR STRATEGIC
CALCULUS HAS ALWAYS BEEN THAT
THEIR GOAL HERE IS TO FIND SOME
WAY TO RESTORE SOME MEASURE OF
DETERRENCE, BY SHOWING THAT
THEY CAN IMPOSE HIGH COSTS ON
THE U.S.
AND THE GLOBAL ECONOMY AS A
CONSEQUENCE OF THIS WAR.
SO, ALLOWING THE PRESIDENT TO
CLEANLY EXIT ON HIS TERMS,
UNDER THIS THREAT THAT THEY
WILL FACE MASSIVE RETALIATION
IF THEY CONTINUE STRIKES OR
THREATS, IT DOES NOT DO
ANYTHING TO RESTORE THAT
DETERRENCE.
I THINK THEY HAVE TO CONTINUE
FIGHTING RATHER THAN ACCEPTING
A DYNAMIC WHERE THE U.S.
CAN COME IN, BALM THEM, AND
LEAVE UNSCATHED.
I THINK WE ARE IN THIS FOR A
WHILE. ANNMARIE:
WE HAD REPORTS OF THE IRGC
STARTING TO MIND THE STRAIGHT
AND AT THE SAME TIME THERE IS A
TWEET AND IT WAS DELETED ABOUT
HOW THE NAVY ESCORTED A THINKER.
THAT DOESN'T SEEM FEASIBLE IF
THE IRGC STARTED MINING THE
STRAIT.
WHAT DID YOU MAKE OF THE TWEET?
TOBIN: THAT WAS A BAFFLING ONE.
WE WERE WATCHING IT IN REAL
TIME, GETTING QUESTIONS ABOUT
IT. IT'S HARD TO ACCOUNT FOR.
IN GENERAL IN POLITICS I DON'T
LIKE TO ASCRIBE THANKS TO
MALICE THAT CAN BE ASCRIBED TO
INCOMPETENCE.
I’'M SURE IT'S A CLEAR MISTAKE
BY SOMEONE ON THE SECRETARY'S
STAFF. ANNMARIE:
ISN'T THIS THE KIND OF TWEET WE
SHOULD BE EXPECTING TO SEE THAT
MIGHT BE FALSE? TOBIN:
IF IT HAD A SUSTAINED EFFECT I
COULD IMAGINE THAT.
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S MESSAGE ON
MONDAY ON SOME LEVEL RATES AS
AN ATTEMPT TO TALK DOWN OIL
PRICES GIVEN THAT IT DIDN'T
CORRESPOND TO AN ACTUAL
DECELERATION IN THE BASE OF
OPERATIONS.
WE HAD HIM COMING ON SAYING THE
WAR WAS ESSENTIALLY OVER ON
MONDAY AND THEN SECRETARY
HEGSETH ON TUESDAY INDICATING
THAT YESTERDAY WAS GOING TO BE
THE HIGHEST INTENSITY OF
OPERATIONS IN THE WAR SO FAR.
CERTAINLY, THE MESSAGE IS GOING
TO BE AIMED AT REASSURING
MARKETS, BUT I THINK TWEETING
PLAINLY WRONG THINGS ABOUT
ACTIONS THAT HAVE NOT BEEN
TAKEN I DON'T THINK IT IS AN
INTENTIONAL STRATEGY THAT THEY
WILL BE RELYING ON. T
LISA:
IT POINTS TO MIXED MESSAGING
GENERALLY FROM THE
ADMINISTRATION.
HOW MUCH CAN YOU ASCRIBE THIS
TO THEIR NOT BEING A PLAN, AS
SOME ACCUSATIONS HAVE PUT IT,
VERSUS THEM HAVING A PLAN AND
NOT WANTING TO REVEAL THE
DETAILS? TOBIN:
I CERTAINLY THINK A LOT OF THIS
IS BEING DONE IN REAL TIME.
THERE ARE SOME ELEMENTS OF THIS
OPERATION THAT HAVE BEEN
PLANNED VERY INTENSELY, BUT
THERE HAVE BEEN A NUMBER OF
REPORTS THAT THE EXTENT OF THE
SHOCKED OIL PRICES AND OTHER
ECONOMY PRICES HAS TAKEN THE
WHITE HOUSE SOMEWHAT BY
SURPRISE.
CERTAINLY, WE HAVE SEEN IN THE
NEGOTIATION PROCESS LEADING UP
TO THE WAR AND IN RECENT
COMMUNICATIONS THAT SOME
ELEMENTS OF THE IRANIAN
REGIME'S STRATEGIC CALCULUS
HAVE TAKEN VARIOUS FOLKS IN THE
ADMINISTRATION BY SURPRISE,
INCLUDING QUIT COFFEE WHO
THROUGHOUT THE NEGOTIATIONS
EXPECTED THEM TO REACT
DIFFERENTLY THAN THEY HAVE.
PRESIDENT TRUMP HAS SAID THAT
ALSO.
I THINK THE THREATS HE MADE ON
MONDAY ARE SIMILAR.
FROM A RATIONAL POINT OF VIEW I
THINK THEY ARE EXPECTING THE
IRANIANS TO SAY THAT THE
AMERICANS HAVE AIR SUPERIORITY,
PRESIDENT TRUMP IS THREATENING
TO DESTROY OUR CIVILIAN
ELECTRICITY INFRASTRUCTURE AND
THAT WOULD BE DEVASTATING, WE
NEED TO BACK DOWN IN THE FACE
OF THAT.
I DON'T THINK THAT IS HOW THE
CONVERSATION IS PLAYING OUT IN
THE REGIME.
IT LED TO A DISCONNECT WHERE
THE PRESIDENT IS SAYING THAT WE
ARE PREPARED TO ACCEPT THE
IRANIANS UNCONDITIONAL
SURRENDER WHICH IRAN IS NOT
OFFERING AT THIS MOMENT.
JONATHAN: GOOD TO CATCH UP.
TOBIN MARCUS OF WOLFE RESEARCH.
THIS QUOTE SUMS UP THINGS WELL.
THIS LOOKS LIKE THE EARLY
INNINGS OF A PR CAMPAIGN, NOT A
SETTLED INTO STATE. LISA:
THIS IS WHY PEOPLE ARE
DISMISSING THAT.
THE REASON WHY, ULTIMATELY,
EVERYTHING IS INCREASINGLY
NOISE COMING OUT OF THE WHITE
HOUSE WHEN YOU HAVE COUNTER
MESSAGING AT THE SAME TIME.
WHETHER THERE ARE OR ARE NOT
MINES, IF THERE WILL BE
MILITARY SHIPS ACCOMPANYING
TINKERS OR NOT.
EITHER WAY IT DOESN'T SEEM LIKE
THIS IS FALLING INTO A COHESIVE
STRATEGY. JONATHAN:
WE TALKED ABOUT IT YESTERDAY.
THE APPARENT LACK OF A PLAN TO
DRAW THIS TO A CONVINCING
CONCLUSION. THERE ISN'T ONE NOW.
ANNMARIE:
JORDAN ROCHESTER WAS REMINDING
US ABOUT HISTORY, GEORGE W.
BUSH'S MISSION ACCOMPLISHED
SPEECH IN 2003 WHILE THE
FIGHTING WENT ON FOR MANY YEARS
AFTER THAT.
THERE WILL BE A G7 MEETING.
LET'S SEE WHAT COMES OUT OF
THAT AND WHAT OTHER ALLIES ARE
SAYING BECAUSE THEY ARE THE
ONES THAT ARE GOING TO.
LISA:
IT IS NOT ENOUGH TO STAVE OFF A
PROLONGED CLOSURE OF THE STRAIT
OF HORMUZ. JONATHAN:
NEXT, ANGELO ZENO AS ORACLE
SURGES AFTER POSTING A BEAT AND
A RAISE.
THE WAR IN IRAN SHAKES UP
ENERGY STOCKS.
THAT IS NEXT FROM NEW YORK CITY.
YOU ARE WATCHING BLOOMBERG TV. ♪
JONATHAN:
I CAN'T BELIEVE IT'S ONLY
WEDNESDAY.
MONDAY, TUESDAY FELT LIKE IT'S
ON MONTH AND THE RANGE WE SAW
IN CRUDE THE RANGER SEEN A
DECADE.
CHECK OUT VOLATILE THINGS HAVE
BEEN. BRENT THIS MORNING, 91.30.
THE HIGH ON MONDAY SESSION WAS
119 POINT 50.
THE LOW ON TUESDAY WAS 81.16.
THE HIGH ON MONDAY, UP BY 29
PERCENT.
THE LOWER WANT TO STAY DOWN BY
18.
$30 PER $40 RANGE FOR THE WEEK
SO FAR. LISA:
THIS DOES NOT FEEL LIKE A
TREATABLE MARKET.
IT FEELS LIKE EXTREME MOVES
LIKE WHEN WE SAW NEGATIVE RISKS
ON CRUDE.
IT RAISES THE QUESTION, WHAT
WILL CREATE STABILITY UNLESS WE
GET MATERIAL, BUT EVEN THEN HOW
DO WE WORK THROUGH DELAYS THAT
HAVE BEEN CAUSED BY SHUTDOWNS,
AS WELL AS A SHIPS FLOATING OUT
THERE. ANNMARIE:
YESTERDAY ALONE, 82 DOLLARS TO
$95 ON BRENT, AN INCREDIBLE GAP.
YOU CAN SEE ALMOST DECADES THAT
WE SAW IN ONE TRADING DAY.
IF THE IEA COMES OUT AND TALKS
ABOUT THIS 300 TO 400 MILLION
BARRELS A DAY, WE NEED TO HAVE
THE TIME FRAME.
BUT HOW DOES THE MARKET TRADE
THAT?
WHEN RUSSIA INVADED UKRAINE,
THEY CAME OUT WITH BAZOOKAS,
THE OIL DROPPED AND PRICES SHOT
UP 20 PERCENT BECAUSE EVERYONE
WAS CONCERNED, THEY THINK THIS
WILL BE PROLONGED MORE THAN
EXPECTED. JONATHAN:
JUST GOT HEADLINE FROM REUTERS,
THE IEA TO ANNOUNCE A
RECOMMENDATION ON THE RESERVE
RELEASE AT 1:00 P.M. NGT.
IT IS FOR THE MEMBERS TO DECIDE
WHETHER THEY FOLLOW THROUGH ON
THAT PROPOSAL, OF 300 TO 400
MILLION THOUSAND CRUDE. LISA:
IF THIS GOES ON FOR A LONG
TIME, HOW DID THEY KEEP ENOUGH
IN THE TANK TO FIGHT THAT GOING
FORWARD? JONATHAN:
SOMEONE IS MAKING IT WORK FOR
THEMSELVES.
SOMEONE MADE 6% LAST WEEK.
AT LEAST IT IS WORKING FOR
SOMEONE BECAUSE FOR EVERYONE
ELSE IT IS EXHAUSTING.
THE S&P 500 SHAPING UP WITH
JUST ABOUT UNCHANGED.
THE NASDAQ JUST ABOUT UNCHANGED.
LET'S GET SOME MORNING MOVERS.
LIZZIE STANDING BY WITH MORE.
LIZZIE: YOU SAW IT WITH OIL.
I START WITH ENERGY.
YOU MENTIONED IEA PROPOSAL TO
THE BIGGEST POTENTIAL RESERVES
RELEASED IN HISTORY.
THE MARKETS DON'T ALWAYS REACT
AS INTENDED.
IT CAN BE SEEN MORE AS A SIGNAL
THAT A RELEASE.
IF YOU HAVE OIL HIGHER, ENERGY
STOCKS HIGHER, AS WELL.
EXXON MOBIL, ALL IN THE GREEN.
LET'S TURN OVER TO ORACLE.
WE HAVE THE EARNINGS AFTER THE
BELL LAST NIGHT.
IT WAS A CLEAN BEAT ACROSS THE
BOARD, UNDER RAISE FOR REVENUE.
EXPECTATIONS WERE ALREADY HIGH
BUT IT BEAT THEM.
THIS UNDERSCORES HOW STRONG AI
DEMAND IS, JUSTIFYING THEIR
AGGRESSIVE.
THE SHARES UP MORE THAN 10% IN
THE PREMARKET.
FINALLY, LET'S TURN OVER TO
NIKE.
THEY'VE HAD AN UPGRADE FROM
ANALYST AT BARCLAYS FROM EQUAL
WEIGHT TO OVERWEIGHT.
THEY ARE IMPRESSED BY BARCLAYS
BY THE OPERATIONAL PROGRESS AT
NIKE.
THEY SAY THIS IS A TACTICAL
INVESTMENT OPPORTUNITY RIGHT
NOW. WE HAVE SEEN GAINS IN THE
EUROPEAN SECTION, THEY COME
FROM THE RETAIL SPACE FROM
INDITEX IS OUR OWNER, RESILIENT
RESULTS.
NIKE UP TO MORE THAN 2% IN THE
PREMARKET.
JONATHAN: BETTER NEWS FOR THEM.
APPRECIATE IT.
JP MORGAN RESTRICTING LENDING
TO PRIVATE CREDIT FIRMS AFTER
MARKING DOWN CERTAIN LOANS IN
THEIR PORTFOLIO.
SOURCES AT BLOOMBERG SAY THE
MARKDOWNS FOCUS ON SOFTWARE
COMPANIES AND ARE
PREEMPTIVE.
THE IEA IS CONSIDERING THE
LARGEST OF THE RELEASE OF
EMERGENCY OIL RESERVES.
THE AGENCY SUGGESTING A RELEASE
OF 300 MILLION TO 400 MILLION
BARRELS.
G-7 MINISTERS MEETING TODAY TO
DISCUSS THE PLAN.
FINALLY, THREE VESSELS UNDER
ATTACK IN THE STRAIT OF HORMUZ
AND PERSIAN GULF. THE U.K.
NAVY SAID THEY WERE HIT BY A
PROJECTILES.
TRAFFIC THROUGH THE STREET HAS
BEEN AT A STANDSTILL SINCE THE
WAR BROKE OUT ALMOST TWO WEEKS
AGO. LISA:
THIS HIGHLIGHTS WHY WILL WILL
NOT SEE INSURANCE AND TIES TO
SHIPPER AND AGGREGATORS TO COME
BACK TO THE STRAIT OF HORMUZ.
IF YOU HAVE THREATS OF MINDS
BEING PLANTED AND PROJECTILES
BEEN INTERCEPTED FOR THREE
SHIPS, REPORTED BY THE U.K.
NAVY, THERE WERE 10 ADDITIONAL
ATTACKS. WHAT DO YOU DO WITH
THAT -- THAT THE U.K.
NAVY HAS A TRACK FROM FEBRUARY
28 TO MARCH 10, HIGHLIGHTING
HOW TREACHEROUS THE KEY WATER
REALLY HAS BECOME AND HOW
DIFFICULT IT WILL BE TO REOPEN.
ANNMARIE:
WALL STREET JOURNAL SAYING THAT
IT WILL TAKE A NUMBER OF WEEKS
TO OPERATE BECAUSE THE U.K.
MAY BE TALKING ABOUT HOW IT IS
CRITICAL.
AND ONE OF THE SHIPS HIT, THE
CREW IS EVACUATING.
THIS IS INCREDIBLY DANGEROUS,
WHICH IS WHY IT WAS SO
SURPRISING YESTERDAY WHEN THE
ENERGY SECRETARY CAME OUT AND
SAID THE U.S.
NAVY WAS ABLE TO TRANSPORT A
VESSEL AND HELP ESCORTED
THROUGH THE STRAIT OF HORMUZ.
JONATHAN:
MISCOMMUNICATION OR
MANIPULATION, BOTH ARE TERRIBLE
BECAUSE YOU DON'T WANT
MISCOMMUNICATION AT THIS LEVEL
OR TIME. NEVER MIND IF IT IS
MANIPULATION.
IT HAS THE SAME EFFECT.
THIS MARKET HAS BEEN BRUTALLY
WHIPSAWED.
IF YOU EXPECT SOMETHING TO
HAPPEN AT THE G7 LEVEL, I
IMAGINE FRUSTRATION FROM MEMBER
STATES RIGHT NOW WHO WOULD LIKE
TO GET ON WITH IT.
THIS REPORT OUT OF JAPAN, PRIME
MINISTER OF JAPAN IS ANNOUNCING
JAPAN WILL RELEASE ITS OIL
STOCKPILES ON ITS OWN AS EARLY
AS THE 16TH.
LISA:
THEY HAVE THEIR OWN PRICE OF
LIVING, COST-OF-LIVING ISSUES
TO COUNTER.
THEY ARE ANOTHER ONE THAT
STOCKPILED QUITE A BIT OF OIL
AHEAD OF THIS.
YOU HAVE ALMOST TWO QUARTERS OF
THE YEAR WORTH OF SUPPLY IN
THEIR RESERVES.
ARGUABLY, YOU COULD SAY IF THIS
IS DONE IN A CONTROLLED WAY,
THEY COULD AVOID PANIC AND
SUPPORT SOME OF THE CONSUMER
BUYING THAT THEY WOULD LIKE TO
SEE IN THEIR ECONOMY.
LOOK, EVERYONE HAS TO DEAL WITH
THIS DIFFERENTLY.
WHERE YOU ARE COMING FROM IS
KEY.
HOW MUCH PEOPLE RESTOCK THEIR
SUPPLIES GOING INTO THIS.
JONATHAN: CRUDE HIGHER BY 3%.
BRENT AT 90 POINT 50.
ORACLE SHARES SURGED IN THE
PREMARKET.
THE SOFTWARE GIANT RAISED ITS
FORECAST ON THE STRONG SIGN FOR
A ICLOUD DEMAND.
MANDEEP SINGH JOINS US FOR MORE.
DID YOU LIKE WHAT THEY HAD TO
SAY THE LAST 24 HOURS? MANDEEP:
THE KEY FOR ME WAS ARE THEY
GOING TO ISSUE MORE BONDS TO
FINANCE THE AI INFRASTRUCTURE
BUILD OUT?
I THINK THAT IS WHAT THEY
HANDLED REALLY WELL LAST NIGHT.
THEY ASSURED INVESTORS THAT
WHATEVER THEY HAVE GOTTEN WITH
50 BILLION, THAT WAS IT FOR THE
YEAR.
STILL, THEY ARE GUIDING FOR 30%
PLUS TOPLINE GROWTH.
I THINK OVERALL THIS IS THE
COMPANY THAT WAS GROWING INTO
MID SINGLE HIGH DIGITS AND NOW
IT IS GROWING 30% PLUS.
THE CONCERT WAS AROUND THEIR
BALANCE SHEET, ARE THEY TAKING
TOO MUCH DEBT?
THE ADDRESS THAT WELL LAST
NIGHT, SO THAT IS WHY YOU SEE
THAT POSITIVE START. JONATHAN:
WE HAVE SEEN A LOT OF DEBT FROM
ELSEWHERE.
THE TEAM OF BLOOMBERG REPORTING
THAT YESTERDAY WAS THE BIGGEST
THEY EVER FROM RISK INVESTMENT
GRADE DEBT ISSUANCE.
AMAZON THE FOURTH LARGEST U.S.
CORPORATE BOND SALE ON RECORD.
HOW WELL IS THAT SUPPLY BE MET
BY DEMAND? MANDEEP:
LOOK, THERE IS APPETITE FOR
COMPANIES LIKE AMAZON TISSUE
BOND. I THINK IF YOU HAVE THE
OPERATING CASH FLOW TO SUPPORT
THAT BOND ISSUANCE, CLEARLY, I
THINK THERE IS AN APPETITE.
SALESFORCE, FOR EXAMPLE, IS
LIKELY TO COME AS WELL.
ALL THESE LARGE COMPANIES FEEL
THIS IS THE TIME TO INVEST. WE
HAVE SEEN THEM DOUBLING DOWN ON
INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS.
OBVIOUSLY, YOU WILL HAVE A
MACRO BACKGROUND WHERE OIL
PRICES CAN HAVE AN INFLUENCE ON
THE SENTIMENT, BUT, SO FAR,
THEY HAVE BEEN QUITE AGGRESSIVE.
I THINK IN THE CASE, ORACLE HAS
THE OPERATING CASH FLOW TO
SUPPORT ANYTHING BEYOND 50
BILLION. JONATHAN:
MANDEEP SINGH OF BLOOMBERG.
YOU FOLLOW THE SAME THING, JP
MORGAN TOLD US YESTERDAY THE
CAPITAL MARKETS ARE STILL WIDE
OPEN.
AT THE SAME TIME, ON THE SAME
DAY, WE HAD THE BIGGEST DAY OF
IG BOND ISSUANCE.
WE HAVE EVER SEEN IN THE
COUNTRY. LISA:
WHICH SHOWS HOW MUCH PEOPLE ARE
RECEPTIVE TO THIS DEBT.
ARE THESE HAVEN PLAYS AND HOW
MUCH ARE THESE COMPANIES, EVEN
THOUGH THEY ARE HAVEN
COMPANIES, PAYING A PREMIUM?
AMAZON SAW THREE POINT FOUR
TIMES SUBSCRIPTION TO THIS SALE
BUT THEY HAD TO PAY A WIDER
SPREAD BECAUSE OF THE RISK
PREMIUM AND MARKETS. JONATHAN:
HERE'S THE TAKE FROM ANGELO
ZINO, CUTTING THE PRICE TARGET,
CITING MOUNTING FINANCIAL
CONCERNS AS GROSS DEBT EXCEEDS
135 MILLION DOLLARS, ADDING WE
EXPECT NEGATIVE FREE CASH FLOW
THROUGH FISCAL YEAR 2020 EIGHT.
WHAT IS YOUR ASSESSMENT OF THE
BALANCE SHEET ISSUES BECAUSE
SOME PEOPLE ARE WALKING AWAY
WITH A LITTLE MORE OF A
CONSTRUCTIVE VIEW, IS WHAT IS
YOUR TAKE? ANGELO:
FIRST OFF, I WOULD SAY THAT THE
ACTUAL QUARTER AND ITSELF WAS A
SOLID, GOOD QUARTER.
THE KIND OF MET ALL THE NUMBERS.
THEY DID RAISE THE GUIDANCE FOR
FISCAL 27 TO 90 BILLION.
THEY POINTED TOWARDS GOOD
VISIBILITY THEY HAVE FOR NOW
WITHIN THEIR PIPELINE.
I WOULD SAY AS FAR AS WHAT WE
SAW OUT OF THE RESULTS LAST
NIGHT, IT DID NOT CHANGE MUCH.
THEY DID NOT DO THE $30 BILLION
NET RACE.
THEY DID CITE THAT THEY WOULD
NOT TAP THE MARKETS AGAIN UNTIL
CALENDAR 26.
WHEN THEY DID NOT DO WAS UPDATE
THE NUMBER.
THEY REITERATED THE NUMBERS BUT
THEY DID NOT PROVIDE ANYTHING
OR UPDATE IT IN TERMS OF FUTURE
YEARS. I WOULD EXPECT THEM TO
POTENTIALLY DO THAT WHEN THEY
REPORT THEM A QUARTER RESULTS
TO THEIR FISCAL YEAR END.
THEY PROBABLY WILL GUIDE A
NUMBER ABOVE THE STREET.
MY VIEW IS THEY PROBABLY ARE
GOING TO NEED TO CONTINUE TO
TAP MARKETS HERE IN THE
FORESEEABLE FUTURE, LIKELY IN
CALENDAR 27, GIVEN THE FACT
THAT THOSE NEEDS ARE GOING TO
REMAIN ELEVATED.
THE GROWTH NUMBERS CONTINUE TO
BE VERY GOOD.
AGAIN, POINTING TOWARDS 30%
GROWTH IN A CALENDAR YEAR, BUT,
AGAIN, IT IS ONE OF THOSE
THINGS WHERE YOU NEED TO FUND
THAT GROWTH. LISA:
SHARES UP MORE THAN 10%
PREMARKET TRADING, A RELIEF
RALLY GIVEN THE SHARES FOR
TODAY WERE DOWN MORE THAN 20%.
HOW CONTINGENT IS ANY OPTIMISM
AND ANY RISK PREMIUM TIED TO
ORACLE ON OPENAI REMAINING A
VIABLE COMPANY, GIVEN HOW MAJOR
THEY ARE FOR THEIR BUSINESS?
ANGELO:
YEAH, THIS QUARTER WAS NOT THE
RISK HERE AS FAR AS ORACLE IS
CONCERNED.
IT IS THAT HIGH CONCENTRATION
RISKS TIED TO OPENAI, GIVEN THE
BACKLOG IS LARGELY STILL OPENAI
DRIVEN.
THE NEXT THREE QUARTERS TO FOUR
QUARTERS SHOULD BE FINE.
IT IS ABOUT ORACLE EXECUTING.
IT IS MORE ALONG THE LINES OF
POST CALENDAR 27 AMBITIONS,
WHERE YOU COULD POTENTIALLY
HAVE TROUBLE WITH ORACLE AND
WHY YOU HAVE TO CONTINUE TO
DISCOUNT SHARES.
YOU LOOK AT THE STOCKS,
PROBABLY TRADING AT ABOUT 18,
19 TIMES OUR CALENDAR 27
EXPECTATIONS.
THAT IS ROUGHLY IN LINE TO
WHERE YOU HAVE GOT MOST OF
THESE AI OR THE AI UNIVERSE
RIGHT NOW, AND THAT IS 17 TO 22
TIMES RANGE.
WHEN YOU LOOK AT ORACLE AND
THEIR ISSUANCE IN TERMS OF
FINANCIAL NEEDS AND OPENAI
CONCENTRATION, IT IS PROBABLY
FAIRLY VALUED.
YOU WILL NEED TO SEE A BROADER
UPLIFT AND AI IN ORDER FOR
ORACLE TO CONTINUE TO WORK.
TO ANSWER YOUR QUESTION, RIGHT
NOW, IT ENTIRELY DEPENDENT ON
THE OPENAI CONCENTRATION AND
WHAT WE WOULD HAVE LIKED TO
HAVE SEEN ON THE CALL WAS MAY
BE GREATER COMMENTARY AND
POTENTIALLY DIVERSIFICATION
AWAY FROM OPENAI. LISA:
HOW EASY WILL IT BE FOR ORACLE
TO TAP THE PRIMARY MARKETS,
DEBT MARKETS, TO FINANCE THESE
ISSUES?
AMAZON IS HAVING AN OK TIME.
ARE YOU WORRIED THAT AS WE SEE
GEOPOLITICAL RISKS PERCOLATE
INTO CREDIT MARKETS, IT WILL BE
MORE OF A DIFFICULT PLAY FOR
ORACLE? ANGELO:
YEAH, LISTEN, AND YOU KIND OF
BROKE UP FOR A SECOND, BUT
BASED ON WHAT I HEARD, YOU
KNOW, I THINK YOU KIND OF LOOK
AT THE NEEDS ORACLE HAS IN THE
FORESEEABLE FUTURE, YOU LOOK AT
THE NEEDS, YOU LOOK AT THE
FINANCING NEEDS, AND IN OUR
VIEW, THEY CONTINUE TO BE -- AS
LONG AS THE SUPPLY DEMAND
LANDSCAPE IS FAVORABLE, AS LONG
AS YOU CONTINUE TO SEE STRONG
OVERALL DEMAND OUT THERE FOR
AI, I CANNOT NECESSARILY SEE
ANYTHING BUCKING THAT THREAT, I
WOULD SUSPECT THAT, OVERALL, IF
THEY NEEDED TO CONTINUE TO
ATTACK MARKETS FOR CAPITAL
NEEDS, THEY SHOULD BE PERFECTLY
FINE, JUST GIVEN THEIR BUSINESS
AND WHAT THAT LOOKS LIKE.
JONATHAN:
ANGELO ZINO OF CFRA
89. 88.
THE FOCUS REALLY, THE IEA
PREPARING A PROPOSAL TO RELEASE
300 TO 400 MILLION BARRELS OF
CRUDE, THE MOST EVER, THE
BIGGEST RELEASE WE'VE EVER SEEN
TO CONFRONT THE ENERGY SHOCK IN
THE MIDDLE EAST AND JAPAN.
THE HEADLINE JUST CROSSED
MOMENTS AGO, ACCORDING TO A
REPORT, JAPAN IS READY TO GO
ALONE THE NEXT WEEK OR SO. LISA:
THEY HAVE A COST-OF-LIVING
ISSUE, PLENTY OF RESERVES, AND
THEY WILL COMBAT THIS.
IT SHOWS HOW JAPAN HAS WORKED
AT ODDS WITH THE REST OF THE
ECONOMY.
IT SHOWS HOW THERE WILL BE
RELEASE VALVES AROUND THE
WORLD, EVEN IF THEY DON'T COME
IN A COORDINATED FASHION FROM
THE IEA. JONATHAN:
YOU CAN START PANICKING WHEN
OFFICIALS BEGIN TO PANIC, I
THINK WE ARE THAT FAR AWAY FROM
OFFICIALS BEGINNING TO PANIC.
LISA:
HOW MUCH AMMUNITION DO THEY
HAVE TO OFFICIALLY STAVE THIS
OFF?
AND THE KEY PANIC PEOPLE WANT
TO SEE IS IN THE WHITE HOUSE
OFFRAMP.
THAT IS THE PANIC PEOPLE HAVE
BEEN HOPING FOR, THAT IS SORT
OF THE BASE OF WHY MARKETS HAVE
NOT BEEN MORE CONCERNED.
ANNMARIE:
EVEN IF TRUMP HAS AN OFFRAMP,
IT IS NOT JUST TRUMP.
THIS IS NOT LIBERATION DAY.
HE NEEDS OTHER PLAYERS TO SHOW
UP AND WANT THE OFFRAMP.
WE WILL SEE THAT WITH THE IRGC.
I'M NOT SURE. NOT YET. JONATHAN:
89.30 ON BRENT CRUDE.
NEXT, REIGNITING INFLATION
FEARS.
>> THE KEY THING WITH POTENTIAL
IMPACTS TO THE ECONOMY FROM THE
OIL PRICE INCREASE IS THE
EXTENT AND THE PERSISTENCE.
THAT IS WHAT WILL BE KEY IN
TERMS OF HOW THIS BLEEDS INTO
GROWTH. JONATHAN:
WE'LL CATCH UP WITH MIKE REID
OF RBC NEXT.
LIVE FROM NEW YORK CITY, YOU
ARE WATCHING BLOOMBERG TV.
♪
JONATHAN:
HERE'S AN UPDATE ON BRENT AND
WTI, BRENT CRUDE 89.55, DOWN
ABOUT 2% OR UP TO PERCENT ON
THE SESSION BUT DOWN FROM
SESSION HIGHS AS THE IEA IS SET
TO PROPOSE A RECORD RELEASE OF
300 TO 400 MILLION BARRELS OF
OIL.
ON TOP OF THAT, HEADLINE ACROSS
THE BLOOMBERG MOMENTS AGO THAT
JAPAN IS CONSIDERING GOING IT
ALONE.
THE LATEST REPORTS OUT OF THEIR
COUNTRY, LOOKING TO RELEASE
RESERVES AS SOON AS THIS WEEK.
LISA:
THIS COMES AT A TIME WHEN YOU
HAVE COST-OF-LIVING CONCERNS
THAT ARE REALLY STRONG AROUND
THE WORLD. JAPAN IN PARTICULAR.
THAT IS WHY JAPAN HAS BEEN
TRYING TO STAVE OFF THOSE
CONCERNS TO STIMULATE THE
ECONOMY.
THAT MAKES SENSE, ESPECIALLY
GIVEN HOW MUCH THEY STOCKPILED
OUT OF THIS. JONATHAN:
AS SOON AS MONDAY POTENTIALLY
OUT OF JAPAN.
THAT IS WHERE THINGS ARE HEADED.
THAT IS THE DIRECTION OF TRAVEL.
AS YOU COME OFF SESSION HIGHS
ON CRUDE, WE ARE OFF SESSION
THOSE ON EQUITY FUTURES,
POSITIVE BY .10% ON THE S&P,
THE NEST ECHO .10%, THE RUSSELL
INTO POSITIVE TERRITORY.
WE TALKED ABOUT IT, 8:30, UNDER
SURVEILLANCE THIS MORNING,
REIGNITING INFLATION FEARS.
>> THE KEY THING HERE WITH ALL
OF THE KIND OF POTENTIAL
IMPACTS TO THE ECONOMY FROM THE
OIL PRICE INCREASE IS REALLY
THE EXTENT AND PERSISTENCE.
THAT IS WHAT IS GOING TO BE KEY
IN TERMS OF HOW THIS FEEDS INTO
GROWTH AND INFLATION, THE
CONSUMER IN THE U.S.
IS SENSITIVE TO HIGHER GASOLINE
PRICES.
I DO THINK THERE IS POTENTIAL
THAT SOME OF THE TAILWINDS
COULD BE UPSET. JONATHAN:
CRUDE DIPPING BELOW 90,
INFLATION FEARS ELEVATED AS
THEY AWAIT CPI DATA AT 8:30.
RECENT DEVELOPMENTS IN THE
MIDDLE EAST WILL LEAVE
INFLATION UNAFFECTED.
HIGHER OIL PRICES WOULD IMPACT
ART HEADLINE INFLATION FORECAST
FOR THE YEAR, MIKE REID JOINS
US FOR MORE.
YOU CAN SEE HOW IT IS TRADING
RIGHT NOW, THE SHAPE OF THE
CURVE LOOKING AT THE FUTURE.
IF WE STAYED THERE LOOKING OUT
FURTHER ALONG THE OIL FUTURES
CURVE, WHAT WOULD THAT MEAN FOR
INFLATION?
MIKE:
FOR INFLATION IT IS NOT GOING
TO LOOK GOOD, WITH OIL AROUND
$75 A BARREL, WE FORECAST
HEADLINE CPI WOULD BE CLOSER 3%
AT THE END OF THE YEAR.
WHEN YOU GET UP TO 00 A
BARREL, IT LOOKS LIKE 3.5%.
JONATHAN:
WHAT IS THE POTENTIAL FOR
SECOND ROUND EFFECTS? MIKE:
THAT IS ANOTHER CONCERN IS YOU
START TO THINK ABOUT TRADE AND
TRANSPORT.
TRANSPORT MARGINS GETTING
SQUEEZED, WHOLESALE TRADE, WE
ARE ALREADY SEEING PRESSURE IN
THE PIPELINE FROM TARIFFS.
YOU OUT ON ANOTHER LAYER OF
INFLATIONARY PRESSURES, THAT IS
EITHER GOING TO GET PASSED ON
TO THE CONSUMER OR YOU'RE GOING
TO SEE MARGIN COMPRESSION AND
POTENTIAL LAYOFFS IN THOSE
SECTORS. LISA:
ONE THING BANK OF AMERICA
POINTED TO IS HOW THE
MIDDLE-CLASS CONSUMER, THE
MIDDLE INCOME CONSUMER, IS
STARTING TO JOIN THE LOWER
INCOME CONSUMER IN BEING CHOICE:
PULLING BACK, FEELING THE PAIN
FOR HIGHER PRICES.
CAN YOU TALK ABOUT HOW MUCH
DISPROPORTIONATELY, A MIDDLE
INCOME AND LOWER INCOME
FAMILIES ARE GOING TO BE
AFFECTED BY PRICES AT DIFFERENT
PRICE POINTS?
IN OTHER WORDS, HOW MUCH THAT
WILL CRAMP MARGINAL SPENDING.
MIKE:
OUR CONCERN IS WHAT YOU LOOK AT
WHEN YOU SEE THE MACRO DATA,
WHETHER IT IS PERSONAL SAVING
RATE OR SPENDING.
IT LOOKS QUITE STRONG.
WHEN YOU BREAK IT DOWN BY
INCOME DECILES, IT IS THE
MIDDLE INCOME FOLKS WHO ARE
FEELING THE BRUNT OF INFLATION.
ALREADY THEY ARE BEING
SQUEEZED, MORE SO THAN UPPER
INCOME FOLKS WHO ARE DRIVING
CONSUMPTION GROWTH RIGHT NOW.
YOU ADD ON TO THE OIL SHOCK,
THE MIDDLE INCOME BUDGETS ARE
ALMOST DOUBLED IN TERMS OF THE
RELATIVE SHARE DATA OF THE
UPPER INCOME OF THE TOP DECILE.
THAT IS TO SAY ABOUT JUST UNDER
4% OF THEIR BUDGETS ARE SPENT
ON GASOLINE, 2024.
THAT IS GOING TO GO HIGHER IF
WE SEE OIL SUSTAINED AT THE
PRICES WHERE THEY ARE.
SO WHAT HAPPENS?
YOU EITHER HAVE TO SEE THEM DIP
INTO SAVINGS OR THEY'RE GOING
TO HAVE TO PULL BACK ON OTHER
AREAS OF CONSUMPTION.
THAT IS A REAL CONCERN FOR THE
BROADER ECONOMY. LISA:
IS THIS INFLATIONARY ON A
BROADER LEVEL OR POTENTIALLY
DISINFLATIONARY BECAUSE OF
DEMAND DESTRUCTION AS A RESULT?
MIKE:
THAT'S A QUESTION WE GET A LOT
AND YOU HAVE OFFSETTING FORCES.
YOU WILL HAVE SOME DEMAND
DESTRUCTION IN OTHER SECTORS.
AT THE SAME TIME, YOU ARE GOING
TO SEE THESE MIDDLE AND LOWER
INCOME CONSUMERS HAVING TO
SPEND THEIR BUDGETS ON GASOLINE.
IF YOU ARE GETTING TO WORK,
TAKING YOUR KIDS TO SCHOOL,
WHETHER YOU ARE DRIVING AROUND,
HAVING THINGS DELIVERED TO YOUR
HOME, YOU ARE GOING TO FEEL
THAT PRESSURE OF HIGHER OIL
PRICES.
THERE IS NO ESCAPING THAT.
ANNMARIE:
IT IS NOT JUST OIL, LISA
MENTIONED FERTILIZER.
WE ARE ABOUT TO HAVE PLANTING
SEASON.
ARE WE GOING TO SEE HIGHER FOOD
PRICES, AS WELL? MIKE:
WE ARE ALREADY SEEING THEM.
WHEN YOU LOOK AT FARMER INPUT
PRICES, THEY'VE BEEN ON THE
RISE A LONG TIME.
WHEN YOU THINK OF THESE CORE
GOODS THAT HOUSEHOLDS SPEND
THEIR BUDGETS ON, FOOD AND
GASOLINE ARE TOP OF MIND.
THESE ARE THINGS THAT FEED INTO
THAT CONSUMER SENTIMENT READING.
WE THINK THOSE ARE AT RISK OF
TURNING MORE NEGATIVE THAN THEY
HAVE ALREADY BEEN.
AND YOU ALSO HAVE THIS CONCERN
KIND OF LONGER-TERM, WHAT
HAPPENS IF THIS PERSISTS AND WE
GET THAT STICKY INFLATION,
THREE, THREE POINT 5%?
YOU SEE THAT SHOW UP IN SOCIAL
SECURITY COLAS, THAT WILL ADD
TO THE BUDGET DEFICIT, LET
ALONE WHAT WOULD HAPPEN IF YOU
SEE THIS SITUATION IN IRAN GO
ON FOR A PROLONGED TIME.
ANNMARIE:
HOW WOULD YOU DO FIND PROLONGED
TIME? WHAT IF THIS
COULD LAST ANOTHER WEEK, COULD
WE GO BACK TO THE BASE CASE
OUTLOOK MANY HAVE FOR THIS YEAR?
MIKE: IT IS LIKE TO STATE A WEEK
WOULD BE VERY SHORT.
THAT WOULD BE A VERY OPTIMISTIC
NEW.
THE CONCERN, AND WHEN I THINK
ABOUT THE SITUATION, I LIKE TO
WATCH WHO IS IN CHARGE OF RBC,
WHICH SHE SAID IS THE SITUATION
RIGHT NOW, ESPECIALLY WITH OUR
IGC, IT IS NOT LOOKING LIKE
THERE'S A GOOD OFFRAMP.
THIS IS MORE OF AN IDEAL,
LOGICAL SITUATION THAN A
BUSINESS TRANSACTION.
THAT IS TO SAY, WHAT THE
ADMINISTRATION DID IN VENEZUELA
IS VERY DIFFERENT THAN WE ARE
SEEING HERE.
THERE IS A REAL RISK THIS GOES
ON FOR SEVERAL WEEKS OR MORE.
JONATHAN:
WE ARE NOT DEALING WITH A
RATIONAL ACTOR AND THAT'S
PROBLEMATIC.
THE BACKDROP IS IMPORTANT AND
THAT MATTERS AS AN ECONOMIST.
FROM THE CONSUMER CHECKPOINT OF
BANK OF AMERICA YESTERDAY, THE
CONTINUED RISE IN PEOPLE MAKING
CREDIT CARD PAYMENTS INDICATES
SLIGHTLY RISING
STRESS LEVELS AT THE MARGIN.
ARE YOU NOTICING THE SAME?
I'M TRYING TO FIGURE OUT HOW
STRESSED THE CONSUMER IS GOING
INTO THE SHOP. MIKE:
WE NOTED IT IS CREDIT CARD
DELINQUENCIES, THE RISK THAT WE
START TO SEE MORE SPREADING
LIKE BY NOW, PAY LATER, WHICH
IS INCREASINGLY HARD TO TRACK.
THE SIGNS OF STRESS ARE THERE,
AND RIGHT NOW, THEY HAVE BEEN
CONCENTRATED AGAIN IN THE
MIDDLE INCOME COHORT.
THE WORRY IS THAT IF THAT
STARTS TO SPREAD WHERE YOU
START TO SEE MORE STRESS, YOU
HAVE THINGS LIKE INTEREST
PAYMENTS BALLOON, IF YOU WATCH
ON FRIDAY, PERSONAL INCOME
SPENDING REPORT, WE LIKE TO
LOOK AT NONMORTGAGE PERSONAL
INTEREST PAYMENTS AS A SHARE OF
PERSONAL INCOME.
THAT HAS BEEN RELATIVELY FLAT
THE LAST YEAR, DESPITE THE FED
CUTTING.
THAT MEANS YOU HAVE A LOT OF
DEBT ON THE BOOKS, AND, AGAIN,
IT IS CONCENTRATED AT THE LOWER
END OF THE INCOME SPECTRUM.
JONATHAN: MIKE REID OF RBC.
WE HAVE SEEN THE STRESS AND LOW
INCOME LEVEL COHORTS GROUPS IN
THIS COUNTRY AND THE PROBLEM IS
IT IS STARTING TO MIGRATE UP
AND BECOME A BIGGER PROBLEM.
LISA: IT IS AT A TIME WITH AN
ADDITIONAL SHOCK AND WHY WE
WATCH CPI SO CLOSELY AT 830
EASTERN, WHAT IS
THE BASE LEVEL?
IT IS HIGHER THAN BEFORE.
PEOPLE ARE FEELING THE STRESS,
WHICH ONLY ADDS TO WHAT
POTENTIALLY HIGHER OIL PRICES
COULD DO TO MIDDLE INCOME
HOUSEHOLD BUDGETS. JONATHAN:
INFLATION DATA COMING UP LATER.
OIL THE CENTER OF OUR WORLD
NOW, DICTATING WHERE MARKETS GO
TICK BY TICK AND PLAY-BY-PLAY,
AND CRUDE AT THE MOMENT BY 2%,
89 .50, SOUTH OF 90.
WTI, 85.20, HIGHER BY 2%.
WE WILL CATCH UP WITH MORGAN
STANLEY JEFF CURRY OF CARLISLE,
TO TALK ABOUT THE COMMODITY
MARKET.
WE WILL SPEAK TO THE FORMER ST.
LOUIS FED PRESIDENT JIM BULLARD
AND DAVID KELLEY OF J.P.
MORGAN ASSET MANAGEMENT ON THE
OUTLOOK FOR INFLATION.
THE SECOND HOUR OF "BLOOMBERG
SURVEILLANCE" IS UP NEXT.
♪
>> IF OIL PRICES COME BACK DOWN
AND THIS IS WRAPPED UP IN A
WEEK OR TWO, I DON'T THINK
THERE WILL BE TOO MUCH LASTING
DAMAGE.
>> PRESSURES CAN COMPLICATE THE
INFLATION PICTURE.
>> WONDERS DISINFLATION SHOCK
TRANSLATE INTO A GROWTH SCARE?
>> SOME TAILWINDS WE EXPECTED
FROM FISCAL POLICY COULD BE
UPSET.
>> THE LONGER THE CONFLICT GOES
ON, THE LONGER THE RISK IS TO
THE GLOBAL ECONOMY.
>> THIS IS "BLOOMBERG
SURVEILLANCE"
WITH JONATHAN FERRO, LISA
ABRAMOWICZ, AND ANNMARIE
HORDERN.
JONATHAN:
LIVE FROM NEW YORK CITY, GOOD
MORNING, GOOD MORNING.
FOR OUR AUDIENCE WORLDWIDE, THE
SECOND HOUR OF "BLOOMBERG
SURVEILLANCE" STARTS NOW.
PRICE ACTION, EQUITY FUTURES
OFF THE LOWS, POSITIVE BY .20%
ON THE S&P 500.
CRUDE OFF THE HIGHS, HIGH ON
THE SESSION BUT NOWHERE NEAR AS
HIGH AS SUNDAY EVENING.
BRENT CRUDE 89.26.
WTI, 84.89, OFF THE BACK OF
REPORTS THAT THE IEA IS SET TO
MAKE A RECOMMENDATION OF
RELEASING 300 TO 400 MILLION
BARRELS OF ENERGY RESERVES.
LISA:
POLICYMAKERS ARE STARTING TO
SWEAT AND THAT IS CLEAR IN
TERMS OF THE SCOPE OF POTENTIAL
RESPONSE, THE LARGEST RESPONSE
EVER AT A TIME WHEN WE DON'T
KNOW HOW LONG RISK IS GOING TO
BE GOING ON.
THIS IS THE REASON WHY THE IEA
WAS CREATED IN 19 74.
WHEN POLICYMAKERS START TO
SWEAT, ALL OF A SUDDEN, PEOPLE
CAN GET CALM ARE IN MARKETS.
MARKETS HAVE ALREADY TRIED TO
BE CALM FOR ALL OF THIS, SO
THEY WILL TAKE WHATEVER THEY
CAN GET TO GET SOME SORT OF
SENSE THAT MAYBE THERE IS
REALLY COMING.
ON TOP OF THAT, JAPAN IS GOING
TO ON THEIR OWN RELEASE OIL
FROM STRATEGIC RESERVE, SO THEY
ARE CONCERNED ABOUT ELEVATED
OIL PRICES AND WHAT THAT MEANS
FOR THEIR CONSTITUENTS.
FINANCIAL TIMES HAD A ROUND UP
OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN COUNTRIES,
SAYING OFFICIALS NEED TO LIMIT
OFFICIAL TRAVEL.
THAILAND'S GOVERNMENT DIRECTED
NO STAFF AGENCIES TO WORK FROM
HOME.
VIETNAM IS ENCOURAGING REMOTE
WORK, CARPOOLING, OR CYCLING TO
WORK.
BASICALLY, DO WHATEVER YOU CAN
TO MAKE SURE YOU ARE NOT USING
GASOLINE. JONATHAN:
THAT IS THE WORRY.
I TAKE AWAY FROM A RELEASE THIS
LARGE IS THAT THEY DON'T THINK
THE SHOCK IS GOING TO END
ANYTIME SOON. LISA:
POTENTIALLY WE DON'T KNOW WHEN
IT IS GOING TO END.
THAT IS THE UNCERTAINTY, MIXED
MESSAGING COMING FROM THE WHITE
HOUSE ABOUT WHAT IS OR IS NOT
HAPPENING ON THE GROUND,
WHETHER IT IS MAYBE SHIP
ESCORTING THE TANKERS ARE NOT,
WHETHER IT IS POTENTIALLY THE
EXISTENCE OR NOT OF MINES
COMING FROM THE OUR IGC.
PEOPLE ARE LOOKING FOR AN
OFFRAMP BUT HOPING FOR ONE.
THE DELAY SEEMED TO BE GETTING
LONGER WHETHER IT IS SAUDI
ARAMCO ARE GOING TO TAKE A
WHILE TO RAMP UP PRODUCTION AND
GET IT GOING. JONATHAN:
AN INTERVIEW WITH THE WALL
STREET JOURNAL EARLIER THIS
MORNING, THE POINT THEY ARE
MAKING THAT EVEN IF THERE IS A
CEASE-FIRE, LET'S SAY THEY GET
ONE RIGHT NOW, TO RESTART
THINGS COULD TAKE AROUND 10
DAYS.
IT IS GOING TO TAKE A WHILE TO
GET THINGS MOVING. LISA:
THE PHYSICAL WORLD IS NOT
TRANSFUSED THROUGH ELECTRONIC
CHANNELS THE WAY PEOPLE'S
EMAILS DO.
YOU HAVE TO GET SHIPS ON THE
GROUND, MAINTENANCE, YOU HAVE
TO GET IN FOR THE WELLS, MAKE
SURE THEY HAVE NOT RESTED, YOU
HAVE TO CLEAN THEM TO GET THEM
RESTARTED.
THIS IS A PROCESS THAT CREATES
DELAYS. ANNMARIE:
AND IT NEEDS TO BE SAFE.
MIKE REID TALKED ABOUT HIS
COLLEAGUE TALKING ABOUT EVEN IF
THERE IS POTENTIALLY THIS
STARTS TO SETTLE DOWN, I RAN
HAS TO MAINTAIN THE ABILITY TO
CONTINUE ATTACKS, DRONES,
PROXIES, SMALL BOATS WITH
EXPLOSIVES AND
MINES.
ONCE THEY RECALIBRATE UNDER A
NEW LEADER AND THE OUR AGC
POTENTIALLY GETS ITS FOOTING
BACK, WE COULD SEE IRAN IN A
FEW MONTHS START HAVE
ASYMMETRIC ATTACKS ON YOUR BACK
TO SQUARE ONE WITH THE STRAIT
OF HORMUZ AND VESSELS ON
TINKERS AVOIDING IT ONCE AGAIN.
JONATHAN:
COMING UP, MORGAN STANLEY, JEFF
CARRIE, AND DAVID KELLEY WILL
JOIN US AS INVESTORS OR FIRST
READ ON INFLATION.
STOCKS HOLDING STEADY.
LISA SHALETT WRITING, THE U.S.
EQUITY MARKET IS RELATIVELY
PLACID, DESPITE HIGHER OIL
PRICES, CLEARLY INVESTORS ARE
CONFIDENT THIS IS TRANSITORY.
LISA JOINS US FOR MORE.
GOOD MORNING.
DO YOU SHARE THE CONFIDENCE?
LISA: I DON'T.
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT HAS
AMAZED US, QUITE FRANKLY, SINCE
2022 IS THE LACK OF RISK
PREMIUM IN THIS MARKET.
WHATEVER THE WORLD HAS THROWN
THIS MARKET, YOU KNOW, WE HAVE
KIND OF PRICED IT IN A DAY, AND
THEN IT IS OVER, AND THEN THE
PATIENTS OF INVESTORS TO HOLD
RISK PREMIUM AND TO DEMAND IT
HAS BEEN EXTRAORDINARILY LOW.
YOU KNOW, WE EVEN LOOK AT THE
BOND MARKET AND MARVELED THAT
PREMIUMS ARE INCREDIBLY BENIGN
VERSUS HISTORY, 65, 70 BASIS
POINTS ON THE LONG END VERSUS A
LONG-RUN
AVERAGE OF 150.
IN MY CAREER, I NEVER
EXPERIENCED SO MUCH
UNCERTAINTY, AND, YET,
VALUATIONS OF ALMOST EVERY
ASSET
CLASS ARE IN THEIR TOP 10% THE
LAST 20 YEARS. JONATHAN:
IT HAS BEEN A QUIET TWO MONTHS
IN 11 DAYS.
OUR NEXT GUEST, JEFF CURRIE,
COMMODITIES HAVE TO CLEAR
SUPPLY AND DEMAND, AND CAN
EQUITY STAKE IN COMFORT FROM
HOW DEEP THE CURVE IS AND WHERE
FUTURES PRICES ARE TRADING AT
THE MOMENT? LISA S.:
THAT IS 100% WITH THE EQUITY
MARKET IS LOOKING AT.
THEY ARE LOOKING THROUGH, THEY
ARE ASSUMING THAT THIS IS
ABSOLUTELY A SHORT-TERM
PHENOMENON.
AND I THINK, YOU KNOW, AS YOU
ALL HAVE DISCUSSED, I DON'T
THINK IT IS AS
SIMPLE AS THAT.
THE SECONDARY AND TERTIARY
FACTS, WHETHER WE TALK ABOUT
CHEMICALS AND FERTILIZERS AND
THIS GO THROUGH TO CONSUMER
GOODS, I DON'T SEE IT BEING
DISCOUNTED QUITE YET.
AND IT MAY TAKE THE QUARTERLY
EARNINGS, RIGHT, FOR CEOS TO
START TALKING ABOUT THESE
THINGS AND SAY, WOOPS, Q1
NUMBERS WILL NOT BE AS GOOD AS
WE GOT FOR PEOPLE TO WAKE UP IN
PRICE IT. LISA:
ONE ISSUE FOR INVESTORS, WHERE
DO YOU HIDE?
DEFENSE HAS CHANGED ITS MEANING
SEVEN TIMES OVER.
BONDS, THERE'S A QUESTION OF
DEFICITS.
THERE IS A QUESTION ABOUT EVERY
ASSET CLASS UNDER THE SUN.
LISA S.:
THERE IS, BUT ONE OF THE THINGS
WE HAVE BEEN EXTRAORDINARILY
ENCOURAGED ABOUT IS THAT
UNDERNEATH THE SURFACE OF THE
INDEX AND WE HAVE
WRITTEN A LOT ABOUT THIS, THE
ABSOLUTE VIOLENCE IN TERMS OF
ROTATION.
YOU HAVE THESE EXTRAORDINARY
DIVERGENCES, WHERE WE HAVE GOT
UNTIL LAST WEEK, YOU HAVE
CONSUMER STAPLES MASSIVELY
OUTPERFORMING, CONSUMER
DISCRETIONARY, YOU HAVE
FINANCIALS COMPLETELY SELLING
OFF, YOU HAD OBVIOUSLY SAMMY'S
MASSIVELY OUTPERFORMING
SOFTWARE, AND TO US, THIS HAS
BEEN A MARKET WHERE THERE IS
LOTS OF LONG-SHORT, HEDGE FUND
ORIENTED OPPORTUNITIES.
I KNOW THERE WERE A LOT OF
HEADLINES YESTERDAY ABOUT HOW
HEDGE FUNDS WERE CAUGHT OFF
GUARD AND OFFSIDES THE LAST
WEEK, BUT TO US, THERE IS A LOT
OF DISPERSION IN THIS MARKET
THAT PERMITS KIND OF ACTIVE
STOCKPICKING TO BE EFFECTIVE,
WHICH WE HAVE NOT BEEN IN ONE
OF THOSE ENVIRONMENTS FOR A
REALLY LONG TIME.
FOR PEOPLE LIKE ME, THIS IS A
FUN MARKET, AS SICK AS THAT
MIGHT SOUND, BECAUSE THERE ARE
THINGS TO DO. LISA:
WE LOOKED AT A CYCLICAL
ROTATION EARLIER THIS YEAR AND
TO CONSUMER DISCRETIONARY
SHARES.
DO YOU THINK THAT IS OVER
BECAUSE OF POTENTIAL OIL PRICES?
LISA S.:
I DO THINK THE HEADWINDS FOR
THE CONSUMER OUR BUILDING, AND
THIS IDEA AROUND HIGH OIL
PRICES TRICKLING IN AS A
HEADWIND, NOT JUST AT THE PUMP,
BUT MORE BROADLY TO CONSUMER
GOODS, INFLATION, BECAUSE WE
HAVE NOT TALKED ABOUT TARIFFS.
WE GOT THAT OFF THE FRONT PAGE,
BUT THEY ARE STILL THERE.
SO TO ME, I THINK THE HEADWINDS
FOR THE CONSUMER OUR BUILDING.
JONATHAN:
LOOKING AT THIS HEADLINE FROM
THE GERMAN ECONOMY MINISTER,
CONFIRMING WHAT WE REPORTED
AROUND THE IEA AND THE RELEASE
OF 300 MILLION TO 400 MILLION
BARRELS OF OIL, SAYING THE IEA
ASKED TO RELEASE 400 MILLION
BARRELS OF CRUDE, GERMANY TO
RELEASE PART OF ITS NATIONAL
OIL RESERVES.
THESE HEADLINES COMING THROUGH
ON A MEMBER BY MEMBER BASIS.
WE HEARD FROM JAPAN EARLIER.
ONE REPORT THERE.
WE ARE HEARING IT DIRECTLY FROM
A GERMAN OFFICIAL. ANNMARIE:
300 TO 400 MILLION BARRELS A
DAY, THE HIGHER RANGE.
THEY ARE ASKING.
IT IS ONE OF THOSE MOMENTS
WHERE IT IS SO LARGE AND BIG
THAT YOU HAVE TO THINK THERE IS
A TREMENDOUS AMOUNT OF CONCERN
ACROSS CAPITALS AROUND THE
WORLD, THAT THIS IS GOING TO BE
A PROLONGED REGIONAL CONFLICT.
JONATHAN:
GERMANY SAYING DIRECTLY THEY
ARE READY TO RELEASE PART OF
THE NATIONAL OIL RESERVES.
AS AN INVESTOR IN EQUITIES,
DOES THAT BRING YOU SOME
COMFORT AT ALL? LISA S.:
IT ACTUALLY DOES NOT BECAUSE TO
ME WHEN POLICYMAKERS PANIC,
THIS FEELS VERY PANICKY.
WE ARE 10 DAYS IN.
WHAT IF THIS GOES 50 DAYS?
WE ARE GOING TO RELEASE ANOTHER
25% OF GLOBAL RESERVE?
THERE'S A LITTLE POLICY PANIC
AND THOSE THAT ACTUALLY GIVES
ME DISCOMFORT. ANNMARIE:
DOES IT REMIND YOU OF 2022?
THERE WERE TWO CONSECUTIVE
RELEASES, THE FIRST ONE PRICES
BY 20% BECAUSE THE MARKET SAID,
WHAT DO POLICYMAKERS KNOW THAT
I DON'T? THIS IS SO BIG.
THIS RELEASE IS MASSIVE, THE
LARGEST EVER. LISA S.:
I'M GOING TO HAVE THE SAME
REACTION AS 20 22.
OBVIOUSLY, WE HAVE HAD THESE
WHIPSAW MOVES.
MY BEST GUESS IS WE ARE BIASED
TO THE UPSIDE OVER THE NEXT
WEEK. LISA:
ANNMARIE:
WHAT WOULD IT TAKE FOR YOU TO
SAM LESS CONCERN NOW IN TERMS
OF POLICY REACTION?
LISA S.:
IN TERMS OF POLICY REACTION, I
WOULD LIKE TO SEE A LOT OF
FOLKS SAYING WE SEE AN END.
WE ARE COMING TO THE TABLE, WE
ARE CIRCLING THE WAGONS, WE ARE
WORKING ON THE ONE SIDE, THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES,
THE PRESIDENT OF ISRAEL, TO
CEASE FIRE ON THEIR SIDE, AND
WHATEVER REMAINING ALLEGIANCES
THERE ARE TWO THE CURRENT
IRANIAN LEADERSHIP DOING THE
SAME, WHETHER THAT IS BACK
CHANNELS FROM CHINA, BACK
CHANNELS FROM RUSSIA.
THAT WOULD BE THE POLICY.
I WOULD LIKE TO SEE DIPLOMACY.
JONATHAN:
LISA SHALETT OF MORGAN STANLEY.
THIS HEADLINE CROSSING THE
BLOOMBERG MOMENTS AGO, DIRECTLY
FROM THE GERMAN ECONOMY
MINISTER, THAT IEA HAD ASKED
THEN, THE INTERNATIONAL ENERGY
AGENCY, HAD ASKED MEMBER
NATIONS TO RELEASE 400 MILLION
BARRELS OF CRUDE, AND THAT
GERMANY IS READY TO RELEASE ITS
PART OF ITS NATIONAL OIL
RESERVES.
THE HEADLINE CROSSED MONTHS AGO.
LISA:
HERE IS THE POLICY RESPONSE,
THE PANIC PRESENT, AND THAT IS
SOMETHING LISA TALKED ABOUT.
I WONDER HOW LONG THIS WILL
SUPPORT OIL PRICES AND WHETHER
IT SIGNALS SOME SENSE OF WHAT
IS AHEAD. JONATHAN:
CRUDE, 89.70 ON BRENT.
NEXT, CONFLICTING MESSAGES ON
IRAN.
>> I CAN CONFIRM THE U.S.
NAVY HAS NOT ESCORTED A TAKER
AT THIS TIME.
OF COURSE, THAT IS AN OPTION
THE PRESIDENT HAS SAID HE WILL
ABSOLUTELY UTILIZE WHEN
NECESSARY AT THE APPROPRIATE
TIME. JONATHAN:
COMMUNICATION COMING OUT OF THE
WHITE HOUSE, JEFF CURRIE OF
CARLYLE JOINS US NEXT.
GOOD MORNING. ♪
JONATHAN:
WE ARE SEEING CRUDE EVERY 15
MINUTES, GOING BACK TO OIL,
BRENT CRUDE, 89 POINT 54, BY 2%
ON THE SESSION OFF SESSION
HIGHS.
THE IEA ASKING MEMBER NATIONS
TO RELEASE 400 MILLION BARRELS
OF RESERVES.
THE MINISTER ADDRESS THAT
DIRECTLY MINUTES AGO, TALKING
ABOUT GERMANY DOING ITS PART.
LISA:
WE HEARD FROM JAPAN, AS WELL,
THIS IS THE POLICY RESPONSE.
IT DEPENDS ON WHAT INVESTORS
SAY, THE DIPLOMATIC AND ROAD
FOR SOMETHING THAT RIGHT NOW
DOES NOT SEEM TO BE IN
CONCLUSION. JONATHAN:
UNDER SURVEILLANCE, CONFLICTING
MESSAGES ON IRAN.
>> CAN YOU EXPLAIN WHY THE
ENERGY SECRETARY POSTED AND
THEN APPEARED TO HAVE DELETED A
POST ON X SAYING THE U.S.
NAVY BOARDED AN OIL TANKER IN
THE STRAIT OF HORMUZ.
>> THE POST WAS TAKEN DOWN
QUICKLY AND I CAN CONFIRM THE
U.S.
NAVY HAS NOT ESCORTED A TAKER
OR VESSEL AT THIS TIME.
OF COURSE, THAT IS AN OPTION
THE PRESIDENT HAS SAID HE WILL
ABSOLUTELY UTILIZE IF AND WHEN
NECESSARY AT THE APPROPRIATE
TIME. JONATHAN:
INCREASING ATTACKS IN THE
STRAIT OF HORMUZ, WHIPSAW YOU
IN ENERGY MARKETS.
THE WHITE HOUSE WALKING BACK ON
A DELETED POST FROM THE ENERGY
SECRETARY CLAIMING U.S.
FORCES ARE ESCORTING TANKERS TO
THE CRITICAL WATERWAY.
BLOOMBERG'S TYLER KENDALL JOINS
US FOR MORE. TYLER:
GOOD MORNING.
MIXED MESSAGING ON MULTIPLE
FRONTS, PROMPTING MORE
VOLATILITY AS U.S.
OFFICIALS RACED TO UNDO THAT
ERRONEOUS POST FROM THE U.S.
ENERGY SECRETARY CHRISTOPHER
WRIGHT.
WE GOT A STATEMENT FROM THE
ENERGY DEPARTMENT SAYING THE
POST WAS "INCORRECTLY CAPTIONS
BY DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY STAFF.
DAN CAINE INDICATED THAT THE
U.S.
MILITARY HAS NOT YET FINALIZED
PLANS FOR NAVAL ESCORTS.
THEY STAND READY FOR THE
SCENARIOS.
THERE WAS ANOTHER POINT OF
CONFUSION YESTERDAY AFTER A
FLURRY OF POSTS FROM PRESIDENT
TRUMP WHERE HE FIRST INDICATED
THAT THE U.S.
HAD "NO REPORTS THAT IRAN WAS
LAYING MINES,"
AND THEN LATER SAID THAT THE
U.S.
HAD FIT AND TARGETED 10 OF WHAT
HE CALLED AN ACTIVE MIND LAYING
BOATS.
IRAN CONTINUES DISRUPTIONS IN
THE STRAIT OF HORMUZ.
BRITNEY TRUMP ISSUED A LITANY
OF THREATS TO DETER THEM,
INCLUDING EARLIER THIS WEEK
SAYING THAT THE U.S.
COULD WIDEN ITS LIST OF TARGETS
TO ELECTRICITY INFRASTRUCTURE
IF DISRUPTIONS CONTINUE.
PRESIDENT TRUMP IS EXPECTED TO
BE ON THAT CALL WITH G7 LEADERS
LATER TODAY TO DISCUSS THE
POTENTIAL FOR AN EMERGENCY
RELEASE OF STOCKPILED RESERVES.
WE KNOW THE ADMINISTRATION IS
EYEING OTHER WAYS TO HELP
PRICES BE CURBED AS IT HITS THE
GAS PUMP, INCLUDING A GAS TAX
HOLIDAY ALTHOUGH IT WOULD
REQUIRE CONGRESSIONAL APPROVAL.
JONATHAN:
JEFF CURRIE OF CARLISLE
WRITING, EVEN IF A CEASE-FIRE
IS REACHED IN THE COMING DAYS,
IT WILL TAKE TIME TO RESTART
THE ENERGY SUPPLY CHAIN.
A LEGEND OF ENERGY RESEARCH
JOINS US. JEFF, GOOD MORNING.
JEFF: GOOD TO BE HERE.
JONATHAN:
LET'S TAKE A STEP BACK, YOU
BELIEVE EVEN IF THERE IS A
CEASE-FIRE TOMORROW, RIGHT NOW,
THE NEXT FIVE MINUTES, THE
WORLD HAS CHANGED.
WHAT HAS CHANGED? JEFF:
FOR ONE, YOU DISRUPTED GLOBAL
SUPPLY CHAINS.
THIS IS NOT JUST A DISRUPTION,
IT IS GAS, FERTILIZERS,
PETROCHEMICALS, THE LIST GOES
ON AND ON.
AND THEN YOU DISRUPT SUPPLY
CHAINS TO COUNTRIES ALL OVER
THE WORLD, THE SHIPS ARE IN THE
WRONG PLACES, INSURANCES ARE
BEING CANCELED, YOU HAVE TAKEN
PRESSURE OUT OF THE FIELDS IN
PLACES LIKE LIKE SAUDI ARABIA,
IRAQ AND THE UAE.
THE LIST GOES ON.
THE DAMAGE IS GOING TO TAKE
MONTHS TO UNWIND.
BUT I WOULD LIKE TO BRING IT TO
THE IMMEDIATE, THERE IS NO
POLICY RESPONSE THAT CAN STOP
THIS ASCENT AND CRUDE. NONE.
THIS 400 MILLION BARREL
HEADLINE, FLOW RATE IS WHAT
MATTERS.
THE MAXIMUM SUSTAINABLE FLOW
RATE IS 2 MILLION BARRELS PER
DAY.
400, THAT WOULD TAKE THEM
200 DAYS TO GET THAT OUT.
YOU PUT THAT IN THE CONTEXT OF
A DISRUPTION, IT HAS TO BE
SOMEWHERE AROUND 18 MILLION
BARRELS A DAY RIGHT NOW.
YOU ARE JUST MINUSCULE IN TERMS
OF OFFSETTING THIS.
AGAIN, THERE ARE NOT MANY
OPTIONS. JONATHAN:
WHAT WOULD YOU CALL THIS, A PR
CAMPAIGN?
JEFF: IN TERMS OF DOING THIS?
IT'S ALL THEY HAVE.
THEY WILL DO WHATEVER THEY CAN.
THE KEY ISSUE, KEEP IT DOWN.
WE KNOW IT HAPPENED IN THE
1970'S WHEN HE GOT THE 40, IT
CREATED AN INCREASE OF DEMAND.
SOMETHING AROUND 2 MILLION
BARRELS PER DAY.
AND THE SIZE OF THIS MARKET,
TRY 3 MILLION A DAY, ON TOP OF
THE DISRUPTION OF SOMEWHERE
AROUND 18. JONATHAN:
THAT WORD COMES UP IN YOUR
RESEARCH, HOARDING.
CHINA HAS BEEN REWARDED FOR
DOING THAT THE LAST 12 MONTHS.
JEFF: THEY ALREADY ARE.
WHETHER IN PLACES LIKE JAPAN
AND KOREA, THEY ARE HOARDING
ANYTHING THEY CAN GET THEIR
HANDS ON AT THIS POINT.
IT EVEN HAPPENS DOWN TO PEOPLE
DRIVING.
KEEP YOUR TANK FILLED UP.
THAT IS MEANINGFUL IN TERMS OF
DEMAND.
MOST PEOPLE DRIVE AND THEY GET
TAKEN DOWN TO ABOUT ONE QUARTER
FILL AND THEN REFILL.
NOW THEY WILL BE GOING TO THE
GAS STATION EVERY TIME HE GETS
TO HALF OR THREE QUARTERS. LISA:
WHAT ARE WE TALKING ABOUT
LONGER TERM?
WE SPOKE WITH STEVE BOLLIN
EARLIER SAYING THAT IF OIL
PRICES GO ABOVE $90 FOR A
PROLONGED TIME, THAT WOULD
CAUSE DAMAGE TO THE UNDERLYING
ECONOMY. AS DATABASE CASE? JEFF:
BY THE WAY, -- IS THAT A BASE
CASE? JEFF:
BY THE WAY, THIS IS A REGIME
CHANGE.
WE ARE MOVING FROM 2014 TO
2024, THE NEW ECONOMY BOOM
DRIVEN BY MAG SEVEN, THE
TECHNOLOGY IS ASSET LIGHT.
SIMILAR TO THE.COM BOOM.
WHAT CAME AFTER THAT?
IT WAS THE EXACT SAME THING.
YOU HAD A GEOPOLITICAL EVENT,
IT SWITCHED YOU IN 2001, AND
THEN ACTUALLY DIRECTLY
CONNECTED TO THE 9/11 WAS
CHINA'S EMISSION OF WTO.
BY THE WAY, THEY WERE CONNECTED.
GEORGE BUSH JUNIOR NEEDED TO
USE FORCE IN THE MIDDLE EAST.
HE NEEDED TO MOVE WITH THE UN
SECURITY COUNCIL, HE TRADED
ADMISSION OF CHINA INTO THE WTO
TO GET THAT VOTE AND, BOOM, YOU
ARE OFF TO THE RACES AND YOU
WERE AN ASSET HEAVY BOOM THAT
LASTED OVER A DECADE TO 2014.
THEN WE WENT INTO THE CURRENT
LIGHT ASSET ONE, AND WE ARE
ONCE AGAIN IN ONE OF THESE HUGE
GEOPOLITICAL EVENTS.
THE BIG THING TO WATCH IS WHEN
XI AND PRESIDENT TRUMP MEET AT
THE END OF THE MONTH.
THAT IS GOING TO BE WITH THE
NEGOTIATION HAPPENS. LISA:
YOU WOULD ARGUE 2020 WAS THE
REAL JUMPSTART? JEFF:
ABSOLUTELY.
LISA:
PEOPLE REALIZE THE PHYSICAL
WORLD TAKES TIME, UNLIKE
SENDING THINGS DIGITALLY.
HOW MUCH STILL NEEDS TO BE
PRICED INTO THE PHYSICAL WORLD?
WE HAVE JUST BEEN SHOWING THE
RISK IN THE OIL MARKET ARE
BROADLY.
HOW MUCH ARE WE UNDER PRICING?
JEFF:
I DON'T THINK WE CAN KNOW WHAT
CAN HAPPEN HERE.
WE ARE GOING TO REPRICE
EVERYTHING.
BY THE WAY, METALS OR A
STRAIGHT LINE GOING UP.
EVERYBODY LOOKS AT THE LAST
MONTHS, BUT HERE IS A POINT I
LIKE TO SAY, YOU LOOK AT THE
RETURNS OF COMPANIES IN 2000
WHEN WE WERE A $20 OIL, 20%,
30%. BY THE TIME TWO THOUSAND 5,
2000 6, 3 TIMES ON THE OIL
PRICE.
THE RETURNS ARE GOING DOWN
BECAUSE THE OVERALL COST
STRUCTURE IN THE INDUSTRY WAS
RISING.
SO HE ASKED ABOUT HOW HIGH IT
CAN GO. METALS ARE GOING UP.
THE COST OF CAPITAL IS GOING UP.
YOUR CURRENCIES WEAKEN, LABOR
GOES UP.
ALL OF THIS BEGINS TO HAPPEN
AND YOU REPRICE.
I DON'T WANT TO SPECULATE.
GET LONG, BUCKLE YOUR SEATBELT,
HANG ON AND WE WILL REPRICE
THIS THING.
WHERE IT READ PRICES?
I GOT IN TROUBLE WITH 2000S --
I WANT TO REPEAT THE NUMBERS
AGAIN -- BUT THE KEY POINT,
WHAT DO YOU WANT TO OWN?
OH AND THE HARD ASSETS, THE
HALOS, ANYTHING -- AND I LOVE
THAT TERM, THE TERM WE CALLED
IN THE 2000S WAS REVENGE OF THE
OLD ECONOMY BECAUSE IT WAS
COMING OFF THE BACK OF THE.COM
BOOM.
THIS TIME AROUND, I LOVE THE
TERM HALO. HEAVY ASSET, THOUGH
OBSOLESCENT, ONLY THOSE ASSETS
AND HANG ON.
I WANT TO OWN METAL, GOLD, OIL.
BY THE WAY, THIS IS A HUGE
DISRUPTION.
IT IS NOT JUST ISOLATED TO OIL.
ANNMARIE:
WHAT DO YOU MAKE ABOUT CENTRAL
BANKS IN THE DWINDLING RESERVES
AND THEIR APPETITE TO BUY GOLD?
JEFF:
WHAT YOU ARE GOING TO SEE IS
MORE DEMAND FOR GOLD OUT OF
THIS BECAUSE ULTIMATELY YOU ARE
GOING TO QUESTION WHAT HAS TO
FINANCIAL SITUATION -- I WOULD
LIKE TO TALK ABOUT WHAT IS
REALLY DIFFERENT ABOUT THIS
TIME VERSUS ANY OTHER TIME IN
THE LAST 50 YEARS IN OIL.
ANY TIME OIL PRICE WOULD SPIKE
PRE-22, BEFORE THE U.S.
AND EUROPE FROZE CENTRAL BANK
ASSETS ON RUSSIA, ANY TIME OIL
PRICES WOULD SPIKE, YOU WOULD
HAVE CAPITAL ROTATE INTO THE
U.S., THE RECYCLING, THE
PETRODOLLARS, THAT WOULD ACT AS
A QED BUFFER, CALLED A SHOCK
ABSORBER TO THE REST OF THE
ECONOMY.
THAT GOES INTO GOLD NOW.
EVER SINCE 2020 TWO, COMMODITY
PRICES FIGHT, EMERGING MARKETS
GET MONEY AND THEY BUY GOLD.
THEY BUY ANYTHING BUT
DOLLAR-DENOMINATED ASSETS
BECAUSE THEY DON'T WANT TO GET
SANCTIONS IMPOSED ON THEM LIKE
WHAT HAPPENED TO THE RUSSIANS.
AS A RESULT, THAT MONEY DOESN'T
COME BACK.
YOU HAVE TO KEEP IN MIND
TRANSFER HAVENS ARE BIGGER.
THE U.S. DEBT IS BIGGER.
THE INTEREST PAYMENTS ARE
BIGGER.
WHEN OIL PRICES GO UP, HEADLINE
INFLATION GOES UP, THAT GETS
BIGGER.
WE ESTIMATE YOU GO TO 120 AND
STAY THERE, YOU WILL CROWD OUT
150 BILLION DOLLARS OF PRIVATE
CREDIT BECAUSE YOU WILL HAVE TO
BE BASICALLY ISSUING PUBLIC
CREDIT. ANNMARIE:
DO YOU THINK THE WORLD IS MORE
VULNERABLE NOW THE 1973?
BUT THE U.S. NOW IS AN EXPORTER.
JEFF:
IT IS A NET EXPORTER AT THE
INCOME CASH LEVEL, MEANING THEY
PRODUCE AS MUCH AS MUCH AS THEY
CONSUME.
YOU GET AN EXCESS OF AROUND $80
BILLION ON A TRILLION DOLLAR
ECONOMY.
I CALL IT THE PARADOX OF ENERGY
DOMINANCE.
LET'S GO TO THE WEALTH LEVEL
AND LOOK AT THE EQUITY MARKET.
ENERGY, 3% OF THE MARKET,
THREE, HOW THE ARE THE THINGS
THAT ARE SHORT? 53%.
YOU ARE LONG THREE AND SHORT 53
AT THE WEALTH LEVEL.
AND WHAT DOES THE MULTIPLE ON
THAT THREE, IT IS LIKE 12 OR 13.
WHAT IS THE MULTIPLE ON THE
OTHER? 36.
YOU ARE IN TROUBLE AT THE
WEALTH LEVEL.
YOU MAY BE SAFE AT THE INCOME
LEVEL BUT YOU ARE IN REAL
TROUBLE AT THE WEALTH LEVEL.
THEN YOU GET THE CREDIT LEVEL.
NOW YOU HAVE TAKEN YOUR SHOCK
ABSORBER BECAUSE OF THE
SANCTIONS YOU IMPOSED ON RUSSIA
CENTRAL BANK AND TURNED IT INTO
A SHOCK AMPLIFIER.
AGAIN, I AGREE 100%, ENERGY
DOMINANCE AT THE CASH FLOW
LEVEL WILL NOT AT THE WEALTH
LEVEL AND OUT OF THE CREDIT
LEVEL. JONATHAN:
AND HOW QUICKLY BEFORE WE START
-- REFINERS IN ASIA HAVE A BIT
OF A CUSHION. HOW BIG IS IT?
JEFF:
YOU JUST TOOK OUT A REFINERY
THAT WAS BOMBED AND THE GOALS,
SO THE SITUATION REFINED
PRODUCTS -- MEANING THAT GOAL
-- IN THE GULF, SO THE
SITUATION OF REFINED PRODUCTS,
ASIA IS THE ONE THAT'S GOING TO
BE IN A BIG PROBLEM. JONATHAN:
JEFF CURRIE ON CRUDE THIS
MORNING AT $90 A BARREL. LISA:
HE DOES NOT WANT TO BE ON THE
RECORD SAYING 130, 1 HUNDRED
40, HIGHLIGHTING HOW MUCH RISK
THERE IS TO THE UPSIDE AND HOW
MANY PEOPLE RIGHT NOW ARE
THREATENED. ANNMARIE:
JEFF DID SAY 120, BUT BUCKLE UP.
JONATHAN:
IT IS A BETTER BUSINESS NOW.
COMING UP, THE FORMER ST. LOUIS
FED PRESIDENT JEFF BULLARD ON
THE ROAD BLOCKS FACING THE NEXT
YEAR. ORACLE SHARES HIGHER ON AN
OUTLOOK BOOST. THAT STOCK IS UP
BY AROUND 10% IN THE PREMARKET.
FROM NEW YORK CITY THIS
MORNING, GOOD MORNING.
YOU ARE WATCHING BLOOMBERG TV.
♪
JONATHAN:
ONCE AGAIN, A CHOPPY SESSION.
STARTING WITH ENERGY, BRENT AND
WTI POSITIVE BY 3% BUT BRENT
CRUDE SO FAR THIS MORNING, AT
90 POINT 50, WTI, 86 .16.
A MAJOR RELEASE OF ENERGY
RESERVES, A PROPOSAL FROM THE
INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY,
PROPOSING UPWARDS OF 400
MILLION BARRELS OF OIL TO BE
RELEASED.
JEFF CURRIE OF CARLISLE ON WITH
THIS MOMENTS AGO, CALLING IT
NOTHING COMPARED TO THE SHOCK
WE ARE SEEING AND EXPERIENCING
OUT OF THE MIDDLE EAST. LISA:
HE POINTED TO THE FACT THAT
DAILY FLOAT IS WHAT MATTERS.
IT IS HOW YOU GET THEM TO
PEOPLE'S CARS AND HOMES AND
OFFICES.
THAT IS GOING TO TAKE A WHOLE
LOT LONGER. THIS IS A PROCESS.
AGAIN, THE PHYSICAL WORLD.
I'M REELING FROM MY
CONVERSATION, THINKING ABOUT
HOW MUCH THE PHYSICAL WORLD
NEEDS TO ADAPT TO REALITY THAT
IS SHIFTING QUICKLY. JONATHAN:
DOES THE EQUITY MARKET NEED TO
ADAPT, AS WELL START
ANTICIPATORY ASSET CLASS,
ANTICIPATING A BETTER FUTURE
BEYOND WHERE IT IS CURRENTLY
TRADING.
CRUDE, EQUITIES, JUST ABOUT
UNCHANGED ON THE S&P 500.
THE NASDAQ UNCHANGED.
RUSSELL, SMALL CAPS HAVE BEEN
IN A BIT OF TROUBLE, DOWN BY
.30%. LISA:
PARTLY HINGED ON THE POLICY
RESPONSE FROM THE FEDERAL
RESERVE AND WHAT OFFSETS THE
FACT THAT HIGHER OIL PRICES
WILL CRIMP CONSUMER SPENDING.
MICHAEL REID POINTED TO MIDDLE
INCOME STRUGGLING, THE MOST
EXPOSED AMONG ANY. JONATHAN:
LET'S GET YOU MORNING MOVERS,
BEGINNING WITH ORACLE.
THAT STOCK PRICE CUT IN HALF
SINCE THE SEPTEMBER HIGH.
THERE HAS BEEN A READ ON THE AI
BUILDS BUT ALSO A COMPANY UNDER
INTENSE PRESSURE, A BY 10% OF
THE PREMARKET.
THE REVENUE OUTLOOK COULD REACH
90 BILLION BEGINNING IN JUNE,
ACCORDING TO THE COMPANY.
THE ESTIMATE, 86 POINT 7
BILLION, SO BETTER THAN
EXPECTED.
FOR PORSCHE, THEY ARE IN A BAD
PLACE, BETWEEN A ROCK AND A
HARD PLACE.
THAT ROCK IS CHINA AND THAT
HARD PLACE IS EV'S, DOWN BY 1%.
THAT TRANSITION HAS BEEN AWFUL.
I WOULD LIKE TO FINISH IN
EUROPE, THE SALES OUTLOOK FELL
SHORT THAN EXPECTATIONS, AT A
TIME WHEN EXPECTATIONS ARE
SKYHIGH FOR RHEINMETALL.
THE CEO SAID WE WILL HAVE A
SIGNIFICANT -- AND STOCKS DOWN
BY MORE THAN 4% THIS MORNING,
CLOSE TO FIVE.
I WOULD SAY LOOK AT THE
COMMENTS FROM CHANCELLOR REEVES
OUT OF THE U.K.
EARLIER THIS MORNING, CHINA
FIGURED OUT HOW TO HELP
CONSUMERS CONFRONTING THE
POSSIBILITY OF HIGHER FUEL
COSTS FOR THE YEAR AHEAD.
IF THEY DO THAT, IT GOES BACK
TO A CONVERSATION THAT WE HAD
THE LAST WEEK OR SO, IF YOU ARE
FOCUSED ON THAT, HOW MUCH SPACE
HAVE YOU GOT, FISCAL ROOM, TO
SPEND ON DEFENSE? LISA:
DOES THAT FISCAL BUDGET THAT IS
TIED TO A RAMPING UP DEFENSE
FORCES GET DIVERTED TO CAPPING
ENERGY COSTS, TO QUALITY OF
LIFE AND COST-OF-LIVING
MEASURES?
THIS IS SOMETHING A LOT HAVE
WONDERED IN RESPONSE TO MARCUS
THAT SIGNIFIES PEOPLE ARE
WRAPPING THEIR HEADS AROUND
THAT REALITY. JONATHAN:
THREE NAMES ARE TRACKING, THAT
IS THE STORY ON THE RADAR, THE
IEA CONSIDERING A RECORD
RELEASE OF EMERGENCY ENERGY
RESERVES.
THE GERMAN ECONOMY MINISTER
TELLING REPORTERS THE AGENCY
HAS ASKED NATIONS TO PREPARE TO
RELEASE A TOTAL OF 400 MILLION
BARRELS.
THE FRENCH PRESIDENT HOSTED A
CALL WITH G7 LEADERS THIS
MORNING, THE HEADS OF STATE
PLANNING TO DISCUSS THE RELEASE
OF STRATEGIC RESERVES.
G7 ENERGY MINISTERS STOPPING
SHORT OF A RELEASE AFTER
MEETING YESTERDAY. THE U.S.
MILITARY CLAIMING IT HAS
DESTROYED MORE THAN A DOZEN
IRANIAN LINE LAYING VESSELS IN
A POST ON THROUGH SOCIAL, THE
PRESIDENT WRITING IF IRAN HAS
PUT OUT ANY MINES IN THE STRAIT
OF HORMUZ AND WE HAVE NO
REPORTS OF THEM DOING SO, WE
WANT THEM REMOVED IMMEDIATELY.
LISA:
I'M TRYING TO UNDERSTAND, ARE
THEIR MINDS OR ARE THERE NOT?
INITIALLY HE SAID THEY WERE
NOT, THEN HE SAID HE WANTED
THEM REMOVED, AND THEN THERE
ARE QUESTIONS OF THE WEST
BLOWING UP A NUMBER OF SHIPS
DELIVERING DEFUNCT OPERATIONS.
THIS UNDERMINES HOW LONG IT
WILL TAKE TO GET THE DANGER
RESOLVED IN THE STRAIT OF
HORMUZ. ANNMARIE:
AFTER THE PRESIDENT TWEETED
THAT, THERE WERE REPORTS IRAN
LOOKED INTO THIS AND THEN
ACTUAL FOOTAGE CAME OUT
ELIMINATING MULTIPLE IRANIAN
NAVAL VESSELS, AND THAT WAS
JUST ONE DAY.
WHICH IS WHY IT IS SO SHOCKING
THAT HOURS BEFORE THAT, THE
ENERGY SECRETARY SAID THAT THE
U.S. NAVY WAS SUCCESSFUL IN
ESCORTING A TINKERER OR VESSEL
BECAUSE THAT DOES NOT SEEM TO
BE HAPPENING ANYTIME SOON.
JONATHAN:
THE CONTRAST BETWEEN EQUITY
STRATEGIST AND A COMMODITY PRO
COULD NOT BE STARKER.
WHEN I LISTENED TO JEFF CURRIE
TALKING ABOUT THE STRESS, THE
PAIN POINT AND THE COMMODITY
MARKET, NOT JUST HIM, BUT SAUDI
ARAMCO, THESE GUYS HAVE
FOLLOWED THE MARKET FOR A LONG
TIME, AND THE FEAR.
I THINK IT IS FAIR TO SAY THE
FEAR THAT THEY HAVE ABOUT WHAT
IS EMERGING AT THE MOMENT, AND
THEY WILL CALL IT A CRISIS
BECAUSE IT IS ONE.
WE HAD THIS CONVERSATION
EARLIER IN THE PROGRAM, THE
COMMODITY MARKET IS A PHYSICAL
MARKET.
YOU HAVE TO CLEAR DEMAND AND
SUPPLY AT SPOT.
THAT IS THE PRICE.
THE EQUITY MARKET IS AN
ANTICIPATORY ASSET CLASS.
THEY ARE THINKING ABOUT WHAT
PRICES ARE GOING TO BE THE YEAR
OUT, AND THERE IS A BELIEF AT
THE MOMENT THAT THIS IS A
TRANSITORY SHOT BUT WE WILL GET
BY AND MOVE ON, AND MAYBE WE
WILL.
BUT THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN THE
TWO STRATEGIST RIGHT NOW COULD
NOT BE WIDER AT THE MOMENT.
LISA: JEFF CURRIE TALKED ABOUT
SOMETHING THAT RHYME TO THE
1970'S IN TERMS OF
STAGFLATIONARY STOCKS THAT LEFT
VALUATIONS REELING.
HE WAS GOING TO END UP PAYING
FOR A BILL THAT IS GOING TO GET
BIGGER THAN IT CURRENTLY IS?
WE HAVE DEALT WITH THE REVENGE
OF THE PHYSICAL WORLD SINCE
2020.
THE DIFFICULTY OF MARKETS TO
REALLY GET PESSIMISTIC ON THAT
WHEN PAIRED WITH THE HOPES AND
DREAMS OF AI AND THE HOPES AND
DREAMS OF A CONSUMER THAT CAN
GET BACK ON BOARD, JUST HAS NOT
COME TOGETHER YET.
THAT PESSIMISM VERSUS OPTIMISM
OF THE POTENTIAL MOMENTUM THAT
WE ARE SEEING IN THE ECONOMY.
JONATHAN:
WOULD YOU LIKE TO BE THE NEXT
FED CHAIR THIS BACKDROP? LISA:
[LAUGHTER]
THIS WILL BE A TOUGH ONE.
I DON'T KNOW HOW THEY WILL
RESPOND. JONATHAN:
LET'S TURN TO THOM TILLIS AND
KEVIN WARSH, FOLLOWING THEIR
MEETING YESTERDAY, NOT WAVERING
ON HIS PROMISE TO BLOCK ANY FED
NOMINATIONS UNTIL THE CRIMINAL
PROBE INTO THE CURRENT CHAIR
JAY POWELL ENDS.
THE FORMER ST. LOUIS FED
PRESIDENT JIM BULLARD JOINS US
FOR MORE.
SET THE STAGE, HOW DIFFICULT
THE MOMENT IS THIS FOR AN
INCOMING FED CHAIR? JIM:
YEAH, SO HE HAS GOT TO GET
THROUGH THE NOMINATION PROCESS
FIRST. AS I UNDERSTAND IT,
ANYWAY, I DON'T THINK ANYTHING
IS GOING TO HAPPEN.
NOBODY IS GOING TO BE ON THE
FED BOARD ANYTIME SOON THE WAY
THIS IS GOING.
THE ADMINISTRATION WILL HAVE TO
COME TO SOME KIND OF DEAL.
THEY DON'T SEEM TO BE TALKING
ABOUT THAT. JONATHAN:
IT IS THE SECOND TIME WE HAD TO
DEAL WITH THIS.
WE SAW IT WAS LARGELY IN THE
PRESIDENT'S HANDS.
FOR WHATEVER REASON, BIDEN
STALLED AND STALLED AND WAITED
A LONG TIME TO RE-NOMINATE
CHAIR POWELL FOR A SECOND TERM.
SOME PEOPLE, EVEN THOSE ON THE
COMMITTEE AT THE TIME, SAID
THAT IS WHAT STOPPED THE
FEDERAL RESERVE FROM HIKING
QUICKLY ENOUGH TO RESPOND TO
THE ENERGY CRISIS AND THE
INFLATION PANDEMICS STOCK
COMING OUT OF THE PANDEMIC.
I WONDER THIS TIME AROUND HOW
CRITICAL THE MOMENT IS WITH A
FRAGILE LABOR MARKET AND
PRESSURE ONCE AGAIN ON
INFLATION COMING FROM ENERGY.
JIM:
WELL, IT IS ALWAYS CRITICAL.
ALWAYS LOTS OF INTERESTING
THINGS GOING ON.
I WOULD SAY ABOUT THIS SHOCK,
IT IS NOT LIKE THE 1970'S.
THIS IS GOING TO BRING UP ARE
GETTING BACK TO THE 1970'S BUT
IT U.S.
AS A PRODUCER TODAY AND THEY
WERE NOT AT THAT TIME.
THE RECESSION THREAT FROM THIS
SHOCK IS SMALLER THAN IT WOULD
HAVE OTHERWISE BEEN.
YOU HAVE THE SUPPLY SIDE KIND
OF OFFSETTING DEMAND RESEARCH
THAT COULD OCCUR.
AND I THINK, AND ON THE
INFLATION SIDE, THE FED LOOKS
THROUGH OIL PRICE SHOCKS ANYWAY.
THEY LOOK AT CORE INFLATION, SO
THERE IS ONLY A SMALL EFFECT ON
CORE INFLATION FROM THIS.
IT IS REALLY WHETHER INFLATION
EXPECTATIONS WOULD START TO
RISE BECAUSE MARKETS WOULD
START TO THINK THAT THE FED WAS
GOING TO ACCOMMODATE, WHICH IS
WHAT HAPPENED IN THE 1970'S,
AND I DON'T THINK THE COMMITTEE
IS IN MUCH OF A MOVE TO DO THAT.
IT IS A DIFFERENT SITUATION,
EVEN THOUGH THIS IS A BIG
SHOCK, IT IS A DIFFERENT
SITUATION THAN WHAT WE SAW
EARLIER IN THE POSTWAR ERA.
LISA: WHAT GIVES YOU CONFIDENCE
THERE'S ENOUGH MOMENTUM IN THE
UNDERLYING ECONOMY TO MAKE THIS
NOT AN ISSUE OF DEMAND
DESTRUCTION, NOT AN ISSUE OF
THE CONSUMER INCREASINGLY
CRAMPED? JIM:
YEAH, I JUST THINK THE SHOCK
WOULD HIT THE U.S.
ECONOMY AND GAS PRICES ARE
SOMETHING WE PAY EVERY DAY, SO
THAT HAS ACTED LIKE A TAX IN
THE PAST, BUT YOU ALSO HAVE A
SUPPLY-SIDE BEING THE WORLD'S
LEADING OIL PRODUCER, WHICH IS
OFFSETTING SOME OF THAT.
I WOULD ALSO SAY THAT WE HAVE
SEEN HIGHER OIL PRICES IN THE
PAST, 145, IF I RECALL
CORRECTLY IN 2008,
AND THAT WOULD BE OVER $200 A
BARREL, SO THAT IS A VERY
DIFFERENT SCENARIO.
MARKETS ARE RIGHT TO FOCUS ON
HOW LONG WITH THIS CONFLICT
CONTINUE TO GO ON?
YOU KNOW, U.S.
CAN WITHDRAW AT ANY POINT, AND
DECLARE VICTORY AND WITHDRAWAL.
WE WILL SEE WHAT HAPPENS. LISA:
EXPECTATIONS OVER AT THE ECB
AND THE BANK OF ENGLAND FOR A
POTENTIAL RATE HIKE
INCREASINGLY PRICED AND IN
RESPONSE TO HIGHER OIL PRICES,
DO YOU THINK PEOPLE START
THINKING ABOUT THE SAME HERE IN
THE U.S.? JIM:
I DON'T KNOW IF THEY GO THAT
FAR. I THINK MORE WOULD HAVE TO
HAPPEN BEFORE THEY GO THAT FAR.
I THINK THE MORE LIKELY
SCENARIOS THAT THEY JUST STAY
ON HOLD LONGER THAN THEY
OTHERWISE WOULD HAVE IN ORDER
TO SEND A SIGNAL THAT THEY
WOULD LIKE TO KEEP INFLATION
UNDER CONTROL.
AGAIN, IT IS THE INFLATION
EXPECTATIONS THAT MATTER MORE
THAN THE OIL PRICE MOVEMENTS
DIRECTLY. ANNMARIE:
WE HAVE SEEN AIRLINES ACROSS
EUROPE AND ASIA INCREASING
FEARS, RAISING THE FUEL
SURCHARGES.
IN AMERICA, WE ARE A FARM TO
TABLE SOCIETY, ALL OF OUR FOOD
COMES BECAUSE OF PETROL AND
GASOLINE ON TRUCKS.
ISN'T THAT GOING TO BE A
PROBLEM FOR THIS FEDERAL
RESERVE?
NOT JUST THE FACT THAT GASOLINE
PRICES THIS MORNING ARE CLOSER
TO FOUR DOLLARS A GALLON THAN
THREE DOLLARS? JIM:
IT IS GOING TO BE A PROBLEM FOR
HEADLINE INFLATION, BUT THE
COMMITTEE LOOKS AT QUARTER
INFLATION.
SO THE WHOLE POINT OF THAT IS
TO SAY THAT THEY ARE NOT GOING
TO REACT TO MOVEMENTS AND FOOD
AND ENERGY PRICES THAT CAN BE
PRETTY TRANSITORY AND HAVE
HISTORICALLY BEEN PRETTY
TRANSITORY.
WHAT THEY WOULD LIKE IS THE
UNDERLYING TREND IN INFLATION,
AND YOU CAN LOOK
AT CORE INFLATION, WHICH THE
COMMITTEE LIKES, AND YOU CAN
ALSO LOOK AT HIGH AND LOW PRICE
CHANGES THAT OCCUR IN THE PRICE
CHANGE DISTRIBUTION. SURE.
YEAH, PEOPLE ARE REALLY PAYING
THESE THINGS. IT REALLY MATTERS.
YES.
BUT WHEN YOU ARE TRYING TO MAKE
POLICY UP FOR THE MEDIUM TERM,
YOU HAVE TO LOOK THROUGH SOME
OF IT.
JONATHAN:
JIM BULLARD, A FORMER ST. LOUIS
FED PRESIDENT, WITH THE TAKE
AWAY OF NOT MUCH TO SEE HERE.
THE VIEW OF ONE FORMER FED
OFFICIAL. LISA:
THE POTENTIAL RISK SCENARIO FOR
THE FEDERAL RESERVE'S HOLD FOR
LONGER.
AGAIN, YOU HAVE MARKET THAT IS
SAYING WE CAN LOOK THROUGH THIS.
THERE IS STILL STRENGTH FOR YOU
HAVE JEFF CURRIE SAYING THIS IS
A REGIME CHANGE AND WE WILL SEE
HIGH PRICES AND YOU HAVE SAUDI
ARAMCO TALKING ABOUT THIS IS A
CRISIS AND A FORMER FED
OFFICIAL SAYS MAYBE THEY JUST
HAVE TO STAY ON HOLD.
PAIR THE IDEAS TOGETHER AND YOU
GET THE FUTURE. JONATHAN:
MAYBE ON THE INFLATION SIDE YOU
ARE NOT WORRIED ABOUT ON THE
GROWTH SIDE, THIS IS NOT 20 22,
THE LABOR MARKET IS NOT IN THE
SAME PLACE.
YOU CAN LOOK AT A RANGE OF
INDICATORS, NOTHING LIKE BEFORE.
LOOK AT JOB OPENINGS TO THE
NUMBER OF UNEMPLOYED.
IT WAS TWO FOR EVERYONE.
NOTHING LIKE THAT NOW.
THE LABOR MARKET IS NOWHERE
NEAR.
THE POTENTIAL FOR SECOND-ROUND
EFFECTS, YOU GET THE INFLATION
BOOST COMING FROM FUEL AND THEN
PEOPLE ASK FOR A PAY RISE.
THAT IS SUBDUED.
BUT THE HIT TO GROWTH, YOU CAN
SEE THAT IS WHAT WE HAVE TO
FOCUS ON. LISA:
I WONDER WHY A RATE HIKE IS
WHAT PEOPLE ARE TALKING ABOUT
TOTALLY, NOT NECESSARILY MORE
SERIOUS RATE CUTS COME 2027,
GIVEN THE FACT THAT THEY WOULD
HAVE TO REDUCE GROWTH AND
CRIMPED THE POTENTIAL FOR
PEOPLE TO KEEP UP WITH HOW FAST
PRICES ARE RISING. JONATHAN:
IT FEEDS ON ITSELF.
DON'T BELIEVE YOU CANNOT ASK
FOR A PAY RAISE. LISA:
FIGHT THE GOOD FIGHT.
DON'T DO THAT.
AT THE SAME TIME, PEOPLE ARE
ASKING HIM NOT GETTING THEM.
PARTICULARLY ON THE LOWER BILL.
JONATHAN: JOB SWITCHES, TOO.
YOU GET IN A BIG BUMP IF YOU
SWITCH JOBS.
YOU GET AN INCREASE.
AND THAT TELLS YOU ONCE AGAIN
THE LABOR MARKET IS NOT AS HARD
OR AS TIGHT AS IT USED TO BE.
LISA: PEOPLE ALSO DON'T FEEL
CONFIDENT TO QUIT THEIR JOBS.
THERE ARE METRICS THAT ADD UP
TO A PICTURE THAT DOESN'T LOOK
LIKE 20.
JONATHAN:JONATHAN:
FUTURES ON THE S&P 500 JUST
ABOUT NEGATIVE.
NEXT ON THE PROGRAM, RISING
INFLATION EXPECTATIONS.
>> THE MARKET IS MARRIED TO THE
INFLATION END OF THINGS AND NOT
TO THE DEMAND DESTRUCTION THAT
IS POSSIBLE.
THAT MIGHT REVERSE IF PRICES
CONTINUE TO GO UP. JONATHAN:
NEXT, DAVID KELLY OF J.P.
MORGAN ASSET MANAGEMENT,
INFLATION DATA 46 MINUTES AWAY.
♪
JONATHAN:
CRUDE BOUNCING BACK BY 4%, WTI
SHORT OF 87.86.
UP BY MORE THAN 4% AS WE GAP A
LITTLE HIGHER ON CRUDE.
WE CAN EVEN CALL IT HIGHER
AFTER SUNDAY NIGHT.
IF WE BOUNCE A LITTLE BIT
HIGHER ON CRUDE, YOU HAVE
EQUITIES DECLINING, DOWN BY
.10% ON THE S&P 500.
INFLATION DATA AT 8:30 EASTERN.
UNDER SURVEILLANCE, RISING
INFLATION EXPECTATIONS.
>> THE LONGER THIS CONFLICT
GOES ON, THE LONGER THE RISK IS
TO THE GLOBAL ECONOMY, NOT JUST
THE U.S. ECONOMY.
IF WE WERE ACTUALLY TO GET A
RECESSION, THE LONG END WOULD
RALLY AND YIELDS WOULD COME
DOWN FURTHER.
THE MARKET IS ATTUNED TO THE
INFLATION END OF THINGS AND NOT
TO THE DEMAND DESTRUCTION THAT
IS POSSIBLE.
THAT MIGHT REVERSE IF PRICES
CONTINUE TO GO UP. JONATHAN:
HIGHER CRUDE PRICES RAISING
INFLATION EXPECTATIONS AHEAD OF
TODAY'S CPI REPORT.
DAVID KELLY OF J.P.
MORGAN WRITING, YEAR-OVER-YEAR
CPI INFLATION COULD NOW PEAK AT
3.5% IN JUNE OF THIS YEAR.
HOWEVER, WE STILL EXPECTED TO
DECLINE LATER IN THE YEAR AS
GASOLINE PRICES RETREATS.
DAVID JOINS US FOR MORE.
WELCOME.
AS YOU OFTEN SAY, THERE WERE
SEVERAL SOURCES OF INFLATION,
GOODS, SERVICES, LABOR, AND
ENERGY. AS YOU LOOK ACROSS THOSE
SOURCES OF INFLATION RIGHT NOW,
A KIND OF PICTURE TO YOU AND
THE TEAM SEE? DAVID:
GOES ON GOODS AND ENERGY, WE
HAVE A PROBLEM.
THE ENERGY PROBLEM IS OBVIOUS.
FUTURES MARKETS ARE PRICING IN
THAT SOME SORT OF SETTLEMENT
WILL OCCUR AND STABILITY WILL
OCCUR BEFORE THE END OF THE
YEAR END BECAUSE CRUDE OIL
PRICES ARE IN THE FUTURE FOR
DECEMBER OF THIS YEAR IS AT $70.
SO FUTURES MARKETS ARE SAYING
THERE WILL BE A SOLUTION BUT
THERE IS A PROBLEM ON GOODS
BECAUSE WE STILL HAVE TARIFFS
AND YOU WILL SEE THE EFFECTS
AFFECTING
INFLATION.
THEY TALKED ABOUT INFLATION AT
3.5%, ACTUALLY, I THINK IT WILL
BE 3.5% YEAR OVER YEAR IN THE
MAY CPI PRINT THREE MONTHS FROM
NOW, SO WE WILL GET THE
FEBRUARY PRINT TODAY.
WE WILL SEE HIGHER INFLATION,
BUT ON THE SERVICES SIDE, WE
JUST DON'T HAVE THAT LABOR
MARKET TIGHTNESS.
THAT MEANS THIS IS NOT THE
1970'S. YOU WILL NOT SEE THAT
FEEDTHROUGH OF STRONGER WAGE
GROWTH.
AND THEN, ALSO, IF YOU LOOK AT
SHELTER INFLATION, THE WORKING
AGE POPULATION IN AMERICA RIGHT
NOW IS SHRINKING BY 20,000
PEOPLE PER MONTH.
IF THAT IS
SHRINKING, YOU DON'T HAVE AS
MUCH DEMAND FOR RENTAL PROPERTY
AND THAT BRINGS DOWN SHELTER
INFLATION, SO VERY MUCH ON THE
SERVICES SIDE OF THE WAGE SIDE,
WE HAVE DEFLATIONARY INFLUENCES
OFFSETTING THAT INFLATION IN
GOODS AND ENERGY FROM TARIFFS
AND CONFLICT TO THE GOALS.
JONATHAN:
CAN WE GO ONE
STEP FURTHER, UNIONS AND UNION
MEMBERSHIP.
HOW IMPORTANT IS IT AT THIS
MOMENT? DAVID:
IN 1974 WE HAD OVER 400 MAJOR
STRIKES.
STRIKES THAT INVOLVED MORE THAN
1000 WORKERS.
MOST OF THE STRIKES WERE JUST
WORKERS TRYING TO GET
COMPENSATION FOR HIGHER ENERGY
PRICES, WHICH, BY THE WAY, THEY
DID. THOSE'S WAGE PRICE SPIRAL.
LAST YEAR, WE HAD LESS THAN 30
MAJOR STRIKES, SIGNIFICANT
STRIKE ACTIVITY THIS YEAR.
TODAY, ONLY A SMALL PERCENTAGE
ARE IN A UNION.
WORKERS ARE HAPPY TO HAVE A JOB.
DO YOU SEE ADVANCES AND AI AND
SOFTNESS IN THE LABOR MARKET,
PEOPLE ARE HAPPY TO HAVE A JOB
AND ARE NOT ASKING FOR THE SAME
WAGE INCREASES.
THE IDEA OF A PRICE WAGE SPIRAL
INFLATION, I THINK THAT IS JUST
NOT A 2026 KIND OF THING. LISA:
GIVEN THE FACT THAT WE WERE
TALKING TO A FOREIGN FED
OFFICIAL THAT THE FED WILL
PROBABLY ON HOLD FOR A LONGER
TIME AS A RESULT OF OIL PRICE
SHOCK, WHY ARE NOT RISK ASSETS
MORE CONCERNED ABOUT A DOWNTURN
IN GROWTH? DAVID:
THEY SHOULD BE.
I THINK THE FEDERAL RESERVE IS
STAYING ON HOLD.
ALL THE PROBLEMS THE ECONOMY IS
FACING HAS NOTHING TO DO WITH
THE LEVEL OF INTEREST RATES.
BUT ALL WE HAVE SEEN -- THIS
GOES BACK DECADES.
WE HAVE SEEN SO MUCH MONEY
POURING INTO EQUITY MARKETS
EVERY MONTH, EVERY WEEK.
WE HAVE ALL THIS 401(K) MONEY,
MASSIVE AMOUNTS OF STOCK
BUYBACKS, AND THEN YOU HAVE ALL
THESE CAPITAL GAINS WHICH
PREVENT MONEY FROM COMING OUT.
WE HAVE TO RECOGNIZE THAT THERE
IS A SYSTEMATIC UPWARD BIAS IN
EQUITY MARKETS OVERALL WHICH
TENDS TO PUSH THEM HIGHER.
THAT IS WHY IT IS EXTRAORDINARY
REALLY THAT OVER THE LAST 18
MONTHS, GIVEN ALL THE
UNCERTAINTIES THAT WE'VE SEEN
IN VARIOUS AREAS, WE HAVE HAD A
MORE SIGNIFICANT CORRECTION IN
THE STOCK MARKET.
THAT TELLS ME THAT THERE IS A
NATURAL BIAS UPWARDS IN THE
STOCK MARKET AND THAT FLOWS
OVER TO OTHER RISK ASSETS
BECAUSE IF PE RATIOS LOOK
RELATIVELY HIGH, MAYBE I WILL
PUT MONEY IN BITCOIN OR TIGHTEN
CREDIT SPREADS.
REALLY ACROSS THE BOARD WE ARE
SEEING A FLOW OF LIQUIDITY,
WHICH I THINK IS IN SOME WAYS A
LITTLE ARTIFICIAL, BUT THAT
GLOBAL LIQUIDITY IS REALLY
OFFSETTING SOME PRETTY WORRYING
FUNDAMENTALS. LISA:
WHAT ARE YOU DOING IN ORDER TO
REPRESENTS BOTH YOUR VIEWS ON
WHAT RISK ASSETS SHOULD DO AND
RESPONDS TO THIS TYPE OF THING
VERSUS A MARKET MOVING
ACCORDING TO SOMETHING ELSE,
ACCORDING TO A BELIEF IN THE
DESIRE TO GO HIGHER? DAVID:
IT IS NOT JUST A MATTER OF
RETURN BUT RISK.
SO WHAT WE ARE LOOKING AT IS,
FIRST OF ALL, OUR PEOPLE
BROADLY DIVERSIFIED ENOUGH SO
YOU DON'T WANT TO BE HEAVILY
OVERWEIGHT LARGE-CAP OR MAKE
CAPS GROWTH STOCKS BECAUSE THEY
ARE CARRYING HIGHER RATIOS AND
THERE ARE RISKS IN THAT SECTOR,
SO YOU NEED TO BROADEN THAT OUT
INTO VALUE AND MID-CAPS AND
SMALL LARGE-CAP STOCKS IN THE
U.S.
VERY MUCH INTERNATIONAL, THERE
IS A FLIGHT TO QUALITY OR
SAFETY WITH THE U.S.
DOLLAR RIGHT NOW, BUT THAT
COULD REVERSE EASILY IF
SHOCKING OIL TURNS INTO A
QUAGMIRE. AND THEN MOVING TO THE
ALTERNATIVES ALSO, JUST AS A
WAY OF FINDING STABILITY FOR
PORTFOLIO WHEN BONDS MAY BE
MORE THOSE YIELDS ARE NOT HIGH
ENOUGH TO GIVE YOU AS MUCH
PROTECTION AS YOU WOULD LIKE,
THE MAIN POINT IS IT IS NOT
JUST ABOUT ANY RETURN BECAUSE
WHAT WE HAVE HERE, WE HAVE
BASELINE BY WHICH THE ECONOMY
KEEPS GROWING, BUT THERE ARE
GROWING TAIL RISKS.
WE HATE TO THINK WHAT COULD
HAPPEN IN TERMS OF THE IRANIAN
RETALIATION AND NONCONVENTIONAL
WAYS FOR WHAT IS GOING ON RIGHT
NOW BUT THAT COULD HAPPEN.
THE HISTORY OF THE 21ST CENTURY
IS ONE WHERE TAIL RISKS, THINGS
YOU THOUGHT WOULD NEVER HAPPEN,
HAPPENED.
AND WHEN THAT HAPPENS, IF THAT
HAPPENS, THE DANGER IS THAT
THOSE THINGS WHICH ARE JUST
OVERPRICED, THAT IS WHERE THE
PROBLEM IS GOING TO BE.
YOU NEED TO BE DIVERSIFIED AND
THE AT THE VALUATION OF THE
STUFF THAT YOU OWN. ANNMARIE:
WHERE ARE YOU LOOKING WHEN YOU
SAY FLIGHT TO INTERNATIONAL?
DAVID: IT COULD BE PRETTY BROAD.
IF YOU LOOK AT VALUATIONS, THE
BIG DISPARITY IS U.S.
IS VALUED WAY HIGH RELATIVE TO
EVERYONE ELSE.
BASED ON FUNDAMENTALS.
THEY ALSO HAVE DIFFERENT
COUNTRIES, REGIONS WITH
DIFFERENT GROWTH
CHARACTERISTICS.
FUNNY, I THINK CHINA IS
ACTUALLY A PRETTY GOOD CALL.
I REALIZE THAT THEY ARE AN ALLY
OF IRAN
THEY ARE NOT USING THEIR
MILITARY FORCES ON THIS, AND
THEY ARE VERY FOCUSED ON
TECHNOLOGY AND ROBOTICS, ON AI,
BATTERIES, ON SUPPLYING GREEN
ENERGY TO THE WORLD, SO THERE
ARE A LOT OF STRATEGIC
ADVANTAGE CHINA HAS HERE, SO I
THINK THAT IS PART OF THE STORY.
I THINK THERE ARE SOME
VULNERABILITY TO ASIA IN A
SHORT-TERM OIL STOCK THAT
EMERGING MARKETS MAKE SENSE AND
EVEN EUROPE, THE EURO ZONE IS
MUCH MORE FOCUSED ON DEFENSE
THAN IT USED TO BE.
I WOULD BROADLY -- AMERICAN
INVESTORS ARE OVERWEIGHT U.S.
AND UNDERWEIGHT THE REST OF THE
WORLD.
I THINK A BROAD BETS ON THE
REST OF THE WORLD MAKES SENSE.
JONATHAN:
DAVID KELLY OF JP MORGAN.
YOU ARE. ANNMARIE:
WALL STREET JOURNAL WROTE THIS
ON, BASICALLY THE ONLY THEY
GOING TO THE STORY OF IRANIAN
OIL, AND THE TAKERS ARE HIGHER
IN ALL THAT OIL GOES TO CHINA.
JONATHAN:
FUTURES UP NEGATIVE .10%.
COMING UP, DAVID RUBENSTEIN OF
THE CARLYLE GROUP.
THE THIRD HOUR OF "BLOOMBERG
SURVEILLANCE"
JUST AROUND THE CORNER.
♪
>> WE HAVE NEVER SEEN A MARKET
LIKE THIS.
>> THERE IS NO PLACE TO REALLY
HEDGE YOURSELF.
>> FROM HERE WE WOULD ASSUME
NORMALIZATION LATER.
>> VOLATILITY CONTINUES TO BE
THE THEME.
>> THIS IS "BLOOMBERG
SURVEILLANCE."
JONATHAN:
LIVE FROM NEW YORK CITY THIS
MORNING, GOOD MORNING, GOOD
MORNING.
THE THIRD HOUR OF "BLOOMBERG
SURVEILLANCE" STARTS NOW.
YOUR PRICE ACTION LOOKS LIKE
THIS.
FUTURES ON THE S&P TAKING A DIP
LOWER. DOWN BY .1%.
ON THE RUSSELL, SOME
UNDERPERFORMANCE.
SMALL CAPS DOWN BY .4%.
PRINT HIGHER BY 3.5 PERCENT,
JUST SHORT OF $91.
29 MINUTES AWAY, INFLATION DATA
IN AMERICA.
WE WILL TAKE ON ADDITIONAL
IMPORTANCE IN THE MONTHS TO
COME. LISA:
IF IT COMES IN HOTTER THAN
EXPECTED IT WILL FUEL THE
NARRATIVE THAT HOTTER OIL
PRICES WILL TRANSLATE INTO
HOTTER INFLATION DOWN THE ROAD
AND REMOVE THE OPTION OF A RATE
CUT THIS YEAR AT THE FEDERAL
RESERVE.
I JUST KEEP FOCUSING ON THE
DISSONANCE BETWEEN SOME OF THE
HYSTERICAL RHETORIC WE ARE
HEARING FROM OIL MAJORS AND
DIFFERENT PEOPLE WHO ARE
LOOKING AT THE COMMODITY MARKET
AND WHAT IS UNFOLDING AND
PEOPLE WHO SAY THIS IS STILL
THINGS AS USUAL AND RIGHT NOW
THE INFLATION CAN COME DOWN AND
EVENTUALLY WE CAN COME BACK TO
TALKING ABOUT THE SAME PLAYBOOK
WE DID A COUPLE OF MONTHS AGO.
ANNMARIE:
CONTAINABLE UNTIL WHEN?
WHEN YOU LOOK AT WHAT GERMANY
IS TALKING ABOUT, THAT THE I/A
CAME TO THEM TALKING ABOUT 400
MILLION BARRELS A DAY, THE
BIGGEST EVER, AND PRICES ARE
GOING UP AFTER THAT HEADLINE
CAME OUT, THERE IS CONCERN THAT
THIS IS GOING TO LAST A LOT
LONGER.
THEN YOU HEAR JEFF CURRY SPEAK
AND HE THINKS 20, BUCKLE UP.
JONATHAN:
JEFF CURRY HAS BEEN TALKING
ABOUT HOARDING AND
TALKING ABOUT
IT FOR A WHILE.
CHINA HAS BEEN STOCKPILING
CRUDE AND THEY HAVE BEEN
REWARDED.
IT IS THE LESSON GONNA BE?
THAT YOU ARE SHORT THE
COMMODITIES YOU NEED.
YOU ARE VULNERABLE TO THINGS
LIKE THIS HAPPENING AND THIS IS
NOT A ONE-OFF.
THE POTENTIAL OF HOARDING IS
SOMETHING WE HAVE TO CONSIDER.
LISA:
THERE WAS AN URGENCY TO FILL
THE STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVE.
THIS WILL LIGHT A FIRE UNDER
THE QUESTIONS OF HOW QUICKLY
THAT WAS ABLE TO GET REFILLED
AND GOES TO A QUESTION OF, WHO
ELSE IS GOING TO BE HAVING THE
CONVERSATION? JONATHAN:
THAT IS WHAT IT IS FOR.
THAT IS LITERALLY WHAT IT IS
FOR. THE BIDEN ADMINISTRATION
TRAINED THE THING, AND ARGUABLY
FOR POLITICAL REASON GOING INTO
THE MIDTERMS, DID NOT REFILL IT.
THIS ADMINISTRATION HAS MADE
THE DECISION TO GO INTO A
CONFLICT WITH IRAN WITHOUT
REFILLING IT EITHER.
IT IS FAILURE AFTER FAILURE.
LISA:
NOW WE ARE DEALING WITH PRICES
AT THE PUMP THAT
ARE INCREASING.
MARKETS ARE TREATING THIS IS
TEMPORARY AND THE QUESTION IS,
WHEN IS THERE AN OFFRAMP?
FOR MARKETS IT IS, WHEN DID
THEY PRESS THE RED BUTTON AND
SAY, WE HAVE TO RESET OUR
ECONOMIC PROJECTIONS? ANNMARIE:
WE TALK ABOUT THE FACT THAT THE
SPR HAS NOT BEEN FILLED BACK UP
AND IT WAS DRAINED UNDER THE
BIDEN ADMINISTRATION.
HOW ABOUT THE FACT THAT THIS
ADMINISTRATION IS TRYING TO
HAVE MISCOMMUNICATION WHEN IT
COMES TO TWEETS, SAYING THE U.S.
NAVY SUCCESSFULLY ESCORTED A
TANKER THROUGH THE STRAIT OF
HORMUZ. I WAS NOT CORRECT.
A DELETED TWEET WE SAW MOVE
MARKET PRICES. JONATHAN:
WHIPSAWED, VOLATILE COUPLE OF
DAYS FOR CRUDE.
COMING UP THIS HOUR, DEEPAK
PURI OF DEUTSCHE BANK, SAMANTHA
DART OF GOLDMAN SACHS, AND
TIFFANY WILDING OF PIMCO
BREAKING DOWN THE LATEST
INFLATION DATA.
WE BEGIN WITH STOCKS EDGING
LOWER AND CRUDE HOVERING AROUND
90 AS THE IAEA WEIGHS THE
LARGEST -- EVEN THE DOMESTIC
POLITICAL PRESSURE FROM SURGING
OIL PRICES WE DO NOT EXPECT THE
CONFLICT TO LAST FOR LONG
PERIOD OF TIME.
ANY PRICE INCREASE WOULD BE
TACKLED BY THE ADMINISTRATION.
GOOD MORNING.
DOES THAT MEAN BUY THE DIP?
DEEPAK: PRETTY MUCH.
A CONSTRUCTIVE OUTLOOK FOR 2026
FOR US HAS NOT CHANGED MUCH,
EVEN THOUGH WE ARE HAVING THIS
MASSIVE GEOPOLITICAL EVENT.
NO, IT REMAINS TO BE SEEN HOW
LONG ENERGY PRICES STAY
ELEVATED AND WHAT WOULD BE THE
IMPACT ON INFLATION AND GROWTH
AND CENTRAL-BANK FUNCTION.
IT IS MAY BE A BIT TOO
PREMATURE TO START SAYING THAT
THIS IS GOING TO BE, YOU KNOW,
A BOOM. JONATHAN:
WHAT IS CIRCLED ON THE CALENDAR?
IF IT SOUNDS
FLIPPANT OR SNARKY, FORGIVE ME.
IS IT A WEEK, TWO MONTHS?
WHEN DOES YOUR VIEW ACTUALLY
CHANGE? DEEPAK:
THE NEW YORK FED HAS DONE
ANALYSIS AND NORMALLY FOR THE
PASS-THROUGH OF INFLATION OF
CRUDE OIL PRICES TAKES TWO
QUARTERS.
YOU ARE LOOKING AT SIX MONTHS
BEFORE THE PRICE OF CRUDE
STARTS INFLUENCING THE MACRO
BACKDROP.
YOU ALSO HAVE TO ZOOM OUT AND
ULTIMATELY LOOK AT THE MACRO
ENVIRONMENT WE WERE IN PRIOR TO
THIS CRISIS.
IF YOU LOOK AT THE MACRO
ENVIRONMENT THEN, FOR THE LAST
COUPLE OF YEARS I WOULD ARGUE
WE HAVE BEEN ON AN
INFLATIONARY BOOM PERIOD.
I DON'T WANT TO LOSE SIGHT OF
THE FACT THAT THERE IS THIS
MASSIVE PRODUCTIVITY GAIN
COMING FROM AI WHICH COULD SORT
OF COMPENSATE FOR THE HIGHER
INFLATION NARRATIVE THAT HAS
BEEN BUILDING UP.
SO, AGAIN, TIME WILL TELL.
IN THE FOG OF WAR IT IS
DIFFICULT TO MAKE TOO MANY
TACTICAL CHANGES TO THE
PORTFOLIO.
WHAT WE HAVE BEEN ADVOCATING TO
OUR CLIENTS HAS BEEN TO BE
WATCHFUL RATHER THAN MAKING
MASSIVE STRUCTURAL CHANGES.
I THINK ONE WOULD ARGUE THAT
GIVEN THE CORPORATE EARNINGS
BACKDROP, THE MACRO BACKDROP
HAS NOT REALLY CHANGED MUCH.
THIS MIGHT WELL BE ONE OF THOSE
INSTANCES WHERE THE MARKETS A
MONTH OR TWO MONTHS FROM NOW
LOOK BACK AND SAY, THIS WAS A
STRESS EVENT, BUT IT DID NOT
ALTER ANYTHING FROM A MACRO
PERSPECTIVE. LISA:
CAN A PRODUCTIVITY BOOM OFFSET
THE RISING COSTS JEFF CURRY
JUST LAID OUT AND TERMS OF A
RE-INDUSTRIALIZATION OF THE
WESTERN WORLD?
FRANKLY, THE GLOBE?
EVEN A TIME WHEN PEOPLE ARE
WORRIED ABOUT SECURITY AND
STOCKPILING RESOURCES?
THIS GOES BEYOND OIL.
IT GOES TO OTHER COMMODITIES AS
WELL. DEEPAK:
I WOULD ARGUE THAT SORT OF
HOARDING MENTALITY WAS
HAPPENING EVEN PRIOR TO THE
CRISIS.
YOU KNOW, THE POST-PANDEMIC
WORLD WHERE GLOBAL SUPPLY
CHAINS HAVE CHANGED A LOT, THEN
THE TRADE AND TARIFF FROM LAST
YEAR WAS MAKING COUNTRIES MORE
IN WORDS AND MORE OF A HOARDING
MENTALITY.
IN ADDITION TO ALL OF THAT
THERE IS ANOTHER LEG OF THIS
OIL HOARDING WHICH I THINK IS
GOING TO HAVE AN IMPACT, BUT
THE INTENSITY OF OIL AND
PRODUCTION ACTIVITY IS ACTUALLY
DOWN.
YOU LOOK AT RENEWABLES, YOU
LOOK AT NUCLEAR, OTHER SOURCES
OF ENERGY, IT ALSO PLAYS A BIG
ROLE IN ENERGY PRODUCTIVITY
GAINS.
MY VIEW WOULD BE THAT, YES,
THIS IS A BIG PROBLEM.
MAYBE OIL CAN SHOOT UP.
TO MY COMMENTS EARLIER THAT THE
ADMINISTRATION DOES HAVE
OPTIONALITY TO LOWER PRICES
DOWN.
BE AT THE TAX CUTS AT THE PUMP,
THE STATE HAS $.15 TO $.50 OF A
GAS TAX AT THE PUMP.
MAYBE THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
SAYS WE ARE GOING TO REIMBURSE
YOU, BUT LET'S NOT CHARGE THAT.
EXPORT RESTRICTIONS.
THE JONES ACT IS REALLY DRIVEN
BY THE TANKER CAPACITY WE HAVE.
MAYBE THAT WOULD BE WAIVED FOR
A WHILE. THERE ARE THINGS THE
ADMINISTRATION CAN DO TO KEEP A
LID ON THE PRICE OF CRUDE.
AT LEAST MYSTICALLY.
MY CONCERN IS MORE FOR EUROPE
AND ASIA, WHERE THEY ARE MUCH
MORE EXPOSED TO SOME OF THESE
VULNERABILITIES.
I THINK THAT IS WHERE IF THERE
IS A PORTFOLIO CHANGE TO BE
MADE YOU MAY WANT TO REVISIT
YOUR ALLOCATION TO SOME OF
THOSE AREAS. LISA:
DO YOU THINK IS MOST EXPOSED?
DEEPAK:
IF YOU THINK ABOUT IT, FROM
JAPANESE EXPORTERS TO EUROPEAN
INDUSTRIALS, THESE THREE WOULD
BE AT THE TOP, BECAUSE THEY'RE
MUCH MORE SENSITIVE TO CRUDE
PRICE AND WHAT IMPACT IT HAS ON
THEIR SPENDING AND INVESTMENTS
IN TERMS OF THE EUROPEAN
INDUSTRIALS.
I THINK THOSE THREE AREAS WOULD
BE MUCH MORE SENSITIVE.
OUTSIDE OF THAT I THINK WERE
LOOKING AT THE RATE CURVE
SLIGHTLY UPWARDS.
I THINK USUALLY FIVE TO 10
BASIS POINTS, THIS IS REALLY
GOING BACK TO OIL PRICE SHOCKS
HAVING SOMEONE OF A LONG SHADOW.
WE JUST DON'T KNOW YET.
THAT COULD HAVE AN IMPACT ON
THE RIGHTS MARKET. ANNMARIE:
YOU MENTIONED THE POTENTIAL
POLICIES WE COULD SEE OUT OF
THE WHITE HOUSE.
DO YOU THINK THE MARKET IS TOO
CONDITIONED TO TRUST IN TRUMP?
DEEPAK: THAT IS A GOOD POINT.
THERE HAS BEEN CONFLICTING
MESSAGES FROM THE
ADMINISTRATION.
I COMPLETELY AGREE WITH THAT.
HAVING SAID THAT, I THINK GIVEN
IT IS A MIDTERM ELECTION YEAR I
WOULD REALLY THINK THAT THE
ADMINISTRATION IS ABLE -- IS
HOPING FOR -- AND THEY HAVE
TALKED ABOUT THIS IN THE PAST.
I WOULD HOPE BY THAT TIME THIS
IS IN THE REARVIEW MIRROR.
YOU ARE NOT TALKING ABOUT JULY
4, WHICH WOULD BE A TIME FOR
CELEBRATION FOR THE COUNTRY.
SO COMMUNAL, THAT IS STILL A
COUPLE OF MONTHS AWAY.
THE EXPECTATION WOULD BE BY
THAT TIME THE PRICE OF OIL IS
NOT A HINDRANCE TO ECONOMIC
GROWTH AND WELL-BEING AND THEN
YOU GO ON TO YOUR MIDTERM
ELECTION, YOUR CANVASSING.
THE FIRST HALF OF THE MIDTERM
ELECTION YEAR TENDS TO BE FROM
A TECHNICAL PERSPECTIVE JUST
WEEK. ANNMARIE:
BEFORE THIS EVEN BROKE OUT IN
TERMS OF IRAN -- AND DAVID
KELLY WROTE ABOUT THIS IN HIS
NOW.
BETWEEN JANUARY TO JUNE, AS WE
HEAD INTO DRIVING SEASON, YOU
HAD $.30 PREMIUM GOING INTO THE
ENERGY COMPLEX.
OIL AND GASOLINE PRICES.
ALREADY PRICES ARE PRIMED TO BE
HIGHER IN THE SUMMER.
ISN'T THIS GOING TO BE
CHALLENGING TO BRING THOSE
PRICES DOWN? DEEPAK:
IT WOULD BE, BUT A LOT DEPENDS
ON WHAT PRICE ACTION WE SEE FOR
THE NEXT SIX TO EIGHT WEEKS.
IF YOU ARE LOOKING AT A TRIPLE
DIGIT PRICE OF CRUDE ON A
SUSTAINABLE BASIS, WITHOUT ANY
REACTION, YOU KNOW, WE JUST SAW
THE IEA REACTION.
THE STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVE
FROM THE U.S.
CAN HAVE AN IMPACT.
I HAVE A HARD TIME THINKING
THAT THE DOUBLING OF CRUDE OIL
IS GOING TO BE ALLOWED
UNCHECKED BY THIS
ADMINISTRATION.
THAT IS THE POINT I'M TRYING TO
MAKE. JONATHAN:
CRUDE WAS $67 GOING INTO THIS
WAR? THAT IS WHERE THE DECEMBER
CONTRACT IS.
AT AROUND $70 RIGHT NOW, WHICH
IS WHERE THE MARKET IS.
THAT IS THE CONSENSUS VIEW.
LISA:
THEY DON'T EXPECT THIS TO BE
LONG-LASTING.
THEY ARE LISTENING TO WHAT
PRESIDENT TRUMP SAID.
THAT IS GETTING PRICED IN, AND
THE RELEASES OF STRATEGIC
RESERVES WILL GO A LONG WAY
TOWARD KEEPING THAT CURVE THAT
WAY, BECAUSE THAT RELEASE WILL
AFFECT THE LONG END OF THAT
CURVE.
IT JUST IS A REAL DISSONANCE
BETWEEN JEFF CURRY AND DEEPAK
PURI. JONATHAN:
WE HAVE DONE THAT A FEW TIMES.
THE EQUITIES ARE AN
ANTICIPATORY ASSET CLASS.
JEFF IS LOOKING AT PHYSICAL,
CLEAR DEMAND AND SUPPLY.
HE THINKS THAT PHYSICAL PROBLEM
IS GOING TO BE AN ISSUE FOR
MUCH LONGER THAN THE MARKET
BELIEVES. LISA:
THERE TWO IDEAS HERE.
THE REVENGE OF THE REAL WORLD,
AND ON THE OTHER HAND A SURGE
IN PRODUCTIVITY WE HAVE NOT
SEEN IN DECADES THAT COULD
OFFSET SOME OF THAT EXTRA
PRICING.
WE HAVE NOT FULLY SEEN THAT.
WE ALSO HAVE NOT FULLY SEEN THE
REVENGE OF THE REAL ECONOMY.
RIGHT NOW THE ANTICIPATION IS
BETWEEN THOSE TWO THINGS.
ANNMARIE:
EVEN IF THERE WAS A CEASE-FIRE
TODAY IT WOULD TAKE 10 DAYS,
ACCORDING TO INDIVIDUALS I
SPOKE TO YESTERDAY . SIX WEEKS.
EVEN IF THERE WAS A CEASE-FIRE
TODAY IT IS GOING TO TAKE WEEKS
TO GET BACK TO WHAT WOULD BE A
NORMAL LEVEL. JONATHAN:
IT IS GOOD TO SEE.
DEEPAK PURI OF DEUTSCHE BANK
PRIVATE BANK.
LOOKING THROUGH SOME OF THIS
SHOCK.
UP NEXT, THE MORNING CALLS,
PLUS WE WILL CATCH UP WITH
SAMANTHA DART OF GOLDMAN SACHS
AS THE IEA PROPOSES A RECORD
RELEASE OF ENERGY RESERVES.
FROM NEW YORK CITY THIS
MORNING, GOOD MORNING.
♪
>> ON OIL, THIS IS A HUGE
DISRUPTION.
THE DAMAGE IS GOING TO TAKE
MONTHS TO UNWIND.
BUCKLE YOUR SEATBELT, HANG ON
FOR THE RIDE, AND WE ARE GOING
TO REPRICE THIS THING.
WHAT DO YOU WANT TO OWN?
ON THE HARD ASSETS. JONATHAN:
I THINK IT IS FAIR TO SAY THAT
JEFF CURRY IS BULLISH ON CRUDE.
CRUDE RIGHT NOW UP BY AROUND 4%.
WTI AT $87.
A SERIES OF COUNTRIES TALKING
UP THE PROPOSAL OUT OF THE IEA
TO RELEASE UPWARDS OF 400
MILLION BARRELS OF ENERGY.
WE WILL GET TO THE IMPORTANCE
OF THAT HEADLINE LATER.
I WANT TO GET TO GET THIS ONE
TOO. THIS COMING FROM A JAPANESE
MINISTER, THAT THEY COULD
SUBSIDIZE GASOLINE PRICES.
SO, YOU'RE GOING TO SEE MORE OF
THIS. PARTICULARLY OUT OF ASIA.
VERY VULNERABLE TO THIS
DISRUPTION, THIS SHOCK. LISA:
JAPAN ALREADY HAD BEEN DEALING
WITH COST-OF-LIVING ISSUES.
THIS IS WHY CPI PRINTS AROUND
THE WORLD ARE THAT MUCH MORE
IMPORTANT. A KIND OF STRESS HAVE
HOUSEHOLDS ALREADY FACE THAT
GETS AMPLIFIED WITH THIS PRICE
SHOCK? JONATHAN:
LET'S TURN TO THE MARKETS.
EQUITY FUTURES DOWN ABOUT POINT
1%.
ON THE NASDAQ WE ARE DOWN .1%
ALSO. THAT IS THE PRICE ACTION.
IT'S GET YOU SOME MORNING CALLS
WITH ONE STOCK AND FOCUS.
ORACLE.
JP MORGAN UPGRADING ORACLE TO
OVERWEIGHT, NOTING IMPROVED
RISK-REWARD AGAINST THE
BACKDROP OF INVESTOR PESSIMISM.
BAIRD RAISING ITS PRICE TAG ON
ORACLE, SEEING A HEALTHY
BACKDROP. THAT IS UP BY 10%.
YOUR THIRD AND
FINAL CALL FROM PIPER SANDLER,
REFLECTING THE MULTIPLE D
RATING ACROSS SOFTWARE.
THE STORE TO WATCH IS THIS ONE.
THE IEA CONSIDERING A RECORD
RELEASE OF EMERGENCY OIL
RESERVES TO EASE SURGING CRUDE
COSTS. THIS COMES AS JAPANESE
OFFICIALS RELEASE PLANS TO
RELEASE PART OF THEIR OWN
RESERVES.
SAMANTHA DART WRITING, BECAUSE
THE STRAIGHT FLOWS DATA OR
NOISY AND THE BROADER SITUATION
REMAINS FLUID WE HAVE NOT
CHANGED OUR OIL PRICE FORECAST,
BUT I ESTIMATE LARGE UPSIDE
RISKS IN LARGER DISRUPTION
SCENARIOS. GOOD MORNING.
IT IS YOUR ASSESSMENT OF WHERE
WE ARE RIGHT NOW?
NEVER MIND THE PR EFFORT.
WHAT IS THIS DISRUPTION
CURRENTLY LOOK LIKE? SAMANTHA:
WE ARE LOSING ABOUT 15.4
MILLION BARRELS A DAY OF SUPPLY
FROM THE REGION.
IF THIS RELEASE GOES THROUGH --
AND IT LOOKS LIKE IT WILL -- IT
CAN OFFSET THAT BY ABOUT --
WELL, THE FASTEST-EVER RELEASE
WE HAVE HAD FROM THE GROUP WAS
AT A BASE OF 2.5.
YOU CAN TALK ABOUT A 300
MILLION BARRELS RELEASE, BUT
IT'S NOT GOING TO BE ALL AT
ONCE MATCHING THE PACE.
ON NET WE ARE STILL LIKELY TO
BE LOSING OVER 10 MILLION
BARRELS A DAY OF OIL FROM THE
MARKET. JONATHAN:
AND THEY SAY 400, SOMEONE LIKE
YOU HERE'S 2.5 PER DAY?
SAMANTHA:
THAT IS WHAT WE OBSERVED IN THE
PAST. WE CAN'T REALLY COUNT ON
ANYTHING BIGGER THAN THAT.
MIGHT HAPPEN.
WE WOULD HAVE TO WAIT AND SEE.
BASED ON WHAT WE HAVE SEEN ON
NET WE ARE GOING TO BE LOSING A
LOT OF OIL DAY BY DAY.
IT MATTERS, BECAUSE WHAT THE
MARKET IS LOOKING AT IS, HERE
IS THE SIZE OF THE SHOCK THIS
CAN REDUCE THE SIZE A LITTLE
BIT, BUT STILL IT IS A LARGE
SHOCK. IF IT CONTINUES FOR LONG
ENOUGH, THAT IS WHEN PRICES GO
BACK TO THAT PANIC MODE OF,
DEMAND DESTRUCTION.
WHEN WE CROSS 00 A
BARREL THAT IS THE SIGNAL BEING
SENT. WE CAN'T MANAGE THIS FAST
ENOUGH.
WE NEED TO DESTROY DEMAND A
LITTLE BIT FASTER.
THIS RELEASE CAN SLOW THIS DOWN
A LITTLE BIT.
I THINK LISA WAS JUST
MENTIONING THIS.
THAT HE KEEPS THE CURVE A
LITTLE BIT MORE MANAGED.
ANNMARIE:
WHEN WE SAW THE HEADLINE COME
OUT OF 400 MILLION BARRELS A
DAY WE SAW PRICES TICKED BACK
UP. IS THE MARKET PANICKING THAT
POLICYMAKERS THINK THIS IS
GOING TO LAST LONGER? SAMANTHA:
I DON'T THINK IT IS A PANIC
YET, BUT YESTERDAY WE HAD
CONFLICTING HEADLINES AS TO
WHETHER U.S.
HAD ESCORTED A TANKER OR NOT.
THE REBRANDING PRICES WE SAW
LATE YESTERDAY MIGHT HAVE BEEN
ASSOCIATED WITH THAT.
SO THE FLOW IS NOT REALLY
IMPROVING?
TO BE FAIR, THE DATA WE HAVE
SEEN SO FAR, EVEN THOUGH IT IS
NOISY AND REVISED ALL THE TIME,
SO FOR IT DOES SUGGEST THAT
FLOWS TO THE HORMUZ HAVE NOT
REALLY IMPROVED. ANNMARIE:
WHEN IT COMES TO SOME
OF THAT MISINFORMATION, HOW
DOES IT MAKE IT THAT MUCH
HARDER FOR THE MARKET TO
POSITION? SAMANTHA:
IT CREATES OF A LOT OF
VOLATILITY.
THE PAST TWO DAYS ARE A PERFECT
ILLUSTRATION OF THAT.
I THINK THE UNCERTAINTY ON
DURATION MAKES SUCH A BIG
DIFFERENCE.
IF THIS IS A ONE-MONTH SHOCK
AND WE KNOW AHEAD OF TIME IT IS
A ONE-MONTH SHOCK, WE GET THE
RELEASE, WE OFFSET MOST IF NOT
ALL OF IT, AND WE CAN ACCESS
SOME OF THE SANCTION BARRELS
FROM RUSSIA AS WELL, WE ARE
ACTUALLY OK BY THE END OF THE
YEAR.
THERE IS NO PANIC, THERE IS NO
DEMAND DESTRUCTION.
IF IT IS A ONE-MONTH SHOCK.
BUT WE DON'T KNOW THAT YET.
THE MARKET HAS PRICE IN THE
RISK THAT IT MIGHT BE TWO
MONTHS.
IT MIGHT BE THREE MONTHS.
THAT SENSE OF URGENCY TO
DESTROY A LITTLE BIT MORE OF
DEMAND NOW TO AVOID GOING TO
CRITICALLY LOW LEVELS SHOWS UP
A LITTLE MORE.
THIS IS WHAT KEEPS US FROM
ABOVE 100, NOW BELOW 100.
MAYBE THIS IS GOING TO BE OVER
SOON?
BUT THE FLOWS ARE STILL LOW,
AND THEN YOU ARE HIT WITH THIS
RELEASE FROM THE IEA.
MAYBE THE PACE OF DRAWDOWN IS
NOT AS FAST. TO YOUR POINT, IT
KEEPS THE MARKET GUESSING, WHAT
ARE WE TRYING TO MANAGE YOUR?
SO, THE TWO ASPECTS OF IT WE
ARE GOING TO BE TRACKING DAY BY
DAY, NUMBER ONE, THE VOLUMES.
WHAT IS THE DISRUPTION EVERYDAY?
AND WHAT CAN BE OFFSET BY THESE
RELEASES? THAT IS NUMBER ONE.
NUMBER TWO, HOW LONG IS THIS
GOING TO LAST?
WHERE IS THAT CONFIDENCE THAT
THIS CAN BE CONTAINED WITHIN A
MONTH VERSUS TWO OR THREE
MONTHS ?
IN WHICH CASE THE MARKET NEEDS
TO HEDGE AGAINST MUCH BIGGER
DISRUPTIONS. LISA:
I'M STRUCK BY THE DISSONANCE OF
SOME OF THE FINANCIAL IS A SHE
AND OF THESE CONTRACTS AND THE
PHYSICAL WORLD, WHICH TAKES
TIME, NEEDS TO BE RESTARTED,
HAS LAGGED.
I'M WONDERING ABOUT CLOSURES OR
STOPPAGES.
HOW LONG YOU THINK IT WILL TAKE
TO RESTART SOME OF THE
PRODUCTION THAT HAS ALREADY
BEEN TAKEN OFF-LINE? SAMANTHA:
YOU HAVE A LITTLE OVER 6
MILLION BARRELS A DAY ALREADY
DOWN FROM PRODUCTION.
OF CRUDE OIL IN THE REGION.
WE ESTIMATE THAT IF IT WERE TO
RESTART TODAY IT WOULD TAKE
ABOUT FOUR WEEKS TO GET BACK TO
NORMAL. LISA: FOUR WEEKS?
HOW ARE PEOPLE SAYING IF THIS
RESULTS IN THE NEXT WEEK AND
WILL NOT BE A PROLONGED
INCREASE, RISK PREMIUM ON OIL
PRICES?
CAN WE JUST SAY THAT FROM HERE
ON OUT WE CAN AVERAGE $80 A
BARREL OR $85 A BARREL FOR THE
REST OF THE YEAR IF IT ENDS IN
A WEEK? SAMANTHA:
IT IS A GOOD POINT.
WE HAVE TO REMEMBER THAT GOING
INTO THIS YEAR THE MARKET WAS
NOT A CIRCLE.
WE ARE COMING FROM A POSITION
OF COMFORTABLE LEVELS OF
INVENTORIES.
INVENTORIES IN OECD HAD BEEN A
PRETTY AVERAGE LEVELS GOING
INTO THE SHOCK.
IF YOU LOOK AT U.S.
SPR, IT WAS ON THE LOW SIDE.
BUT OVERALL COMMERCIAL STOCKS
WERE PRETTY AVERAGE.
CHINA'S STRATEGIC RESERVES ARE
HIGHER THAN NORMAL.
WE CAME IN OK IN STOCKS AND
WITH A SURPLUS.
NOW WE ARE EATING AWAY INTO
THAT SURPLUS AND GETTING
POTENTIALLY INTO A DEFICIT.
YES, TO YOUR POINT, THERE IS A
SUSTAINED IMPACT ON STORAGE,
BUT ESPECIALLY IF WE DO GET THE
RELEASE, THAT COULD BE
MODERATED OVER TIME SO THAT
STORAGE WILL NOT LOOK THAT
COMFORTABLE FOR A FEW WEEKS,
BUT OVER ENOUGH MONTHS, 5, 6,
SEVEN MONTHS WHERE THAT RELEASE
ENDS, THEN YOU CAN BE BACK AT A
MORE COMFORTABLE POSITION.
JONATHAN:
LISA TOLD YOU ABOUT THE TIME IT
TAKES.
THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN CUTTING
PRODUCTION AND SHUTTING
PRODUCTION, WHAT IS THE
DIFFERENCE BETWEEN THOSE TWO
HEADLINES?
AND WHY'S IT SO SIGNIFICANT?
SAMANTHA:
THE WAY WE THINK ABOUT AND IT
IS THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN
STOPPING EXPORTS AND STOPPING
PRODUCTION.
IF I STOP EXPORTS TODAY BUT I
HAVE SPARE CAPACITY ON MY
INVENTORIES, THEN I CAN JUST
STOCKPILE.
WHEN THE CHAOS COMES DOWN I CAN
JUST SEND THAT BACK TO THE
MARKET.
SO, YOU ARE DELAYING VOLUMES AS
OPPOSED TO LOSING THEM.
BUT WHEN YOU'RE SHUTTING
PRODUCTION, WHEN YOU HALT YOUR
PRODUCTION BECAUSE YOU DON'T
HAVE ANYWHERE TO PUT IT, THAT
IS PRODUCTION LOST. JONATHAN:
IT IS GOOD TO SEE YOU.
SAMANTHA DART OF GOLDMAN SACHS.
THAT DISTINCTION IS IMPORTANT.
WHEN YOU WERE SHUTTING DOWN
PRODUCTION YOU'RE SHUTTING DOWN
THE WEALTH.
TO RESTART THINGS TAKES A LONG
TIME.
YOU CAN QUESTION THE INTEGRITY
OF WHAT YOU WERE DOING THERE
TOO.
THAT IS THE ISSUE YOU HAVE GOT.
EVEN IF THIS ENDS TODAY THINGS
ARE NOT STRAIGHTFORWARD.
IT IS NOT EASY. LISA:
AND IT IS GOING TO TAKE TIME.
IT'S GOING TO TAKE TIME TO
BRING BACK PRODUCTION.
IT'S GOING TO TAKE TIME FOR
MAERSK TO GET THEIR SHIPS.
IT WILL ALSO TAKE TIME TO GET
KEY INGREDIENTS, SUCH AS UREA,
WHICH IS KEY FOR AGRICULTURAL
PRODUCTS. ANNMARIE:
THE LONGER THIS GOES ON IT'S
GOING TO BE HARDER FOR SOME
COUNTRIES LIKE THE UAE, FOR
SAUDI ARABIA TO DECIDE, WHAT DO
THEY SHIP OUT IN THE ROUTES
THEY HAVE ACCESS TO?
IS IT CRUDE OIL OR JET FUEL AND
SOME OF THE PRODUCTS THAT COME
FROM CRUDE OIL?
A LOT OF HARD DECISIONS COMING
UP. JONATHAN: WTI AROUND $87.
WE HAVE TALKED ABOUT IT
THROUGHOUT THIS MORNING.
THE IEA SET TO RELEASE PERHAPS
400 MILLION BARRELS.
WHEN YOU TALK TO THE PROS THEY
DO NOT HEAR 400, THEY HEAR TWO
.5 MILLION A DAY AND IT IS THE
FLOW THAT MATTERS. LISA:
IT IS THE CUSHION.
IT IS NOT SOME SORT OF POLICY
PRESCRIPTION.
IT IS EASY TO GAME OUT A
SCENARIO THAT LOOKS BAD, WHICH
IS EVEN MORE REMARKABLE THAT
FINANCIAL MARKETS HAVE BEEN
FAIRLY CALM.
THEY SEE THIS AS SHORT-LIVED.
THEY SAY WE CAN LIVE.
THE QUESTION HERE IS, WHAT
ABOUT BEYOND THAT?
REALLY IT MATTERS HOW STRONG
THE ECONOMY IS. JONATHAN:
UP NEXT, WE HAVE TO TALK ABOUT
INFLATION. THE LATEST CPI DATA.
TIFFANY WILDING OF PIMCO TO
BREAK IT DOWN.
WITH BRENT CRUDE AND WTI HIGHER
BY AROUND 4%.
WTI, 86 DOLLARS, BRENT CRUDE,
$91.
♪
JONATHAN:
BIG FOCUS ON THE RELEASE OF
ENERGY RESERVES.
WE WILL GET TO THOSE HEADLINES
IN A MOMENT.
ON INFLATION, THE INTERIOR
SECRETARY ASK ABOUT THOSE
RESERVES.
THESE ARE THE MOMENTS THAT
RESERVES ARE FOR.
GOING ON TO SAY THAT IT IS THE
PERFECT TIME TO THINK ABOUT
RELEASING THEM.
BRENT CRUDE UP BY 4% THIS
MORNING.
EQUITY FUTURES JUST ABOUT
UNCHANGED ON THE S&P.
IN FIXED INCOME YIELDS AT THE
FRONT END OF THE CURVE UP BY A
BASIS POINT OR SO.
2-YEAR JUST ABOUT UNCHANGED.
WITHOUT INFLATION DATA JUST
CROSSING LET'S GET TO MIKE
MCKEE FOR MORE. MIKE:
LOOKS LIKE WE COME IN ON THE
NUMBERS THAT ARE EXPECTED.
HEADLINE CPI UP .3%, WHICH PUTS
THE YEAR-OVER-YEAR AT 2.4%.
NO CHANGE FROM JANUARY.
THE CORE IS UP BY .2%.
THAT IS DOWN A TICKET FROM
JANUARY AND THE YEAR-OVER-YEAR
STAYS AT 2.5%.
SO, NO INFLATION NUMBERS TO
WORRY ABOUT IN THIS REPORT, AT
LEAST FROM THE HEADLINES WE
HAVE GOT.
I WILL LOOK AT THE DETAILS, BUT
THIS IS ALL PRE-TRUMP WAR.
JONATHAN: THIS IS IMPORTANT.
THIS IS THE STARTING POINT.
OUR THINGS SET GOING INTO THE
WAR WITH IRAN?
HOW ARE THINGS SET GOING INTO
THIS SPIKE IN ENERGY?
WHICH WAS IN THE 60'S AND IS
NOW DEEP INTO THE 80'S,
THREATENING TO BREAK BACK INTO
THE 90'S.
GIVEN THE MOVE WE HAD ON SUNDAY
NIGHT, WHO KNOWS?
WE COULD GO BACK TO TRIPLE
DIGITS AGAIN. MIKE:
THAT IS THE WORRY DOWN THE
ROAD, AND IT IS NOT JUST THAT
WE GO BACK TO TRIPLE DIGITS AND
IT HITS THE HEADLINE NUMBER
BECAUSE THE FED WE LOOK THROUGH
THAT AND EXPECTED TO BE
TEMPORARY.
IT IS WHEN IT GETS INTO THE
CORE, LISA WAS TALKING ABOUT
FERTILIZER, FOR EXAMPLE.
WHEN IT STARTS TO GET INTO THE
CONSUMER PRODUCTS, THAT WOULD
BE A CONCERN AND VERY MUCH
DEPENDS ON HOW LONG THIS ALL
TAKES.
WE'VE GOT TO KEEP AN EYE ON
THAT. I WILL LOOK AT SOME OF THE
UNDERLYING NUMBERS AND SEE IF
WE SEE PROBLEMS. ONE OTHER
CAVEAT IS BIASED DOWN BECAUSE
OF THE HOUSING NUMBERS BECAUSE
OF THE GOVERNMENT SHORTAGE.
SHUT DOWN.
THIS IS ESSENTIALLY NOT THE
SAME KIND OF READING WE WILL
GET WITH THE PCE ON FRIDAY.
JONATHAN:
MIKE MCKEE, THANK YOU, SIR.
EQUITY FUTURES JUST ABOUT
UNCHANGED ON THE S&P.
HAVEN'T HAD A MOVE THERE IN A
NUMBER OF HOURS NOW.
YIELDS ARE HIGHER BY A SINGLE
BASIS POINT. TENS AROUND 4.18%.
CRUDE UP 4%. 87 ON WTI.
BRENT THE HIGH NUMBER AT $91.44.
THAT IS THE ENERGY STORY, BUT
WHEN YOU LOOK ELSEWHERE, GOODS,
SERVICES, LABOR, NOT GOING TO
GET THAT INFLATIONARY PUSH
OUTSIDE OF GOODS.
LABOR SPECIFICALLY, THIS MARKET
IS NOT TIGHT ENOUGH TO HAVE
THOSE SECOND-ROUND EFFECTS THAT
PEOPLE WOULD BE CONCERNED ABOUT.
LISA:
WHICH IS WHY PEOPLE ARE NOT
LOOKING FOR RATE HIKES IN THE
UNITED STATES.
THE DUAL MANDATE IS IN CONFLICT.
IF YOU LOOK AT REAL AVERAGE
WEEKLY EARNINGS THEY FELL FROM
1.9% TO 1.7% IN THIS LATEST
READING.
IT SHOWS THE MOMENTUM IS FADING
IN TERMS OF WHAT PEOPLE'S
DISPOSABLE INCOME CAN DO.
IS THIS GOING TO BE
INFLATIONARY OR
DIS-INFLATIONARY AS ARE SOME OF
THE OTHER ASPECTS OF THE
ECONOMY? JONATHAN:
LET'S GET YOU AN UPDATE FROM
TIFFANY WILDING OF PIMCO.
WELCOME TO THE PROGRAM.
IS THERE REASON TO BE CONCERNED
ABOUT INFLATION AND AN
INFLATIONARY SPIRAL IN THE YEAR
AHEAD? TIFFANY:
I THINK CENTRAL BANKS HAVE TO
BE CAREFUL, BECAUSE WE ARE
COMING OFF OF A POST-PANDEMIC
PERIOD OF ELEVATED INFLATION.
WHEN YOU HAVE THOSE KINDS OF
PERIODS, EVEN IF THEY WERE
TEMPORARY SHOCKS THE CENTRAL
BANK IS GOING TO WORRY ABOUT
INFLATION EXPECTATIONS
ADJUSTING HIGHER IN SOME OF
THOSE HIGHER PRICES FILTERING
INTO WAGE NEGOTIATIONS, WHICH
MAKES THINGS MORE PERSISTENT.
BUT AS YOU SUGGESTED, THE LABOR
MARKET HERE IS COMING INTO THIS
SHOCK IN A MUCH DIFFERENT
POSITION AND IN A WEAKER
POSITION THAN WHEN WE HAD THE
RUSSIA-UKRAINE SHOCK AND YOU
HAD SHORTAGES OF LABOR.
WE HAD VACANCIES OVER
UNEMPLOYED WORKERS.
TWO VACANCIES.
IT IS A DIFFERENT LABOR MARKET.
WE THINK GOING INTO THIS THE
SECOND-ROUND EFFECTS, THE RISKS
OF THAT ARE MORE MODERATE.
JONATHAN:
WHEN YOU LOOK AT THE GROWTH
OUTLOOK IS THE REASON TO TAKE
DOWN THE OUTLOOK FOR GROWTH
GIVEN WHAT YOU JUST SAID?
TIFFANY: THIS IS GOING TO IMPACT
HEADLINE INFLATION.
IF WE LOOK AT GASOLINE PRICES,
THEY ARE UP 20% VERSUS A BIT OF
A LAG VERSUS WHEN THE EPISODE
IN UKRAINE STARTED.
THAT IS A REAL INCOME SHOCK.
YOU WILL GET INFLATION THAT IS
HIGHER.
THANK HEADLINE INFLATION COULD
ACCELERATE BY A PERCENTAGE
POINT, AND THAT MEANS REAL
INCOMES WILL DECELERATE BY A
PERCENTAGE POINT.
USUALLY CONSUMERS HAVE ENOUGH
SAVINGS TO WHERE THEY CAN
SMOOTH OVER THESE KINDS OF
THINGS. AGAIN, ASSUMING THIS IS
TEMPORARY.
BUT THE SAVINGS RATE HAS
ACTUALLY DROPPED QUITE A BIT.
WE HAVE SEEN LABOR INCOMES THAT
HAVE FALLEN, THE GROWTH OF
LABOR INCOMES THAT HAVE FALLEN.
WE ARE KIND OF IN A WEAKER
POSITION IN TERMS OF THE
CONSUMER AND WE THINK THERE IS
A POTENTIAL FOR THIS TO TAKE
OFF SOME FROM GROWTH. LISA:
DO YOU THINK PEOPLE LOOKING AT
THE FED NOT CUTTING THIS YEAR
ARE LOOKING AT A FED THAT IS
CUTTING SIGNIFICANTLY IN 2027?
TIFFANY: YEAH, I MEAN I
DEFINITELY THINK THERE IS A
POSSIBILITY THAT IF YOU HAVE
HEADLINE INFLATION, MAYBE SOME
PRESSURE ON CORE JET FUEL
PRICES ARE UP A BIT.
THAT WILL FEED INTO AIRFARES,
WHICH IS WITHIN CORE INFLATION.
IF YOU HAVE THAT DELAY, THEN
THAT IS POTENTIALLY JUST MEANS
YOU COULD HAVE THE MEETING TO
DROP INTEREST RATES MORE
QUICKLY AS INFLATION, AS THESE
TEMPORARY EFFECTS FADE AND WHAT
WE ARE LEFT WITH IS A WEAKER
ECONOMY.
I GUESS THE CAVEAT IS THAT WE
ARE GETTING HIGHER TAX RETURNS
AND HOUSEHOLD TAX CUTS AS A
RESULT OF THE ONE BIG,
BEAUTIFUL BILL ACT LAST YEAR.
THAT WILL BUFFER SOME OF THE
BLOW OF THIS.
AT LEAST IN THE NEAR TERM AS
PEOPLE GET THOSE HIGHER
PAYCHECKS. LISA:
THIS PROGRAM THIS MORNING HAS
BEEN FRAMED BY JEFF CURRY OF
CARLISLE.
HOW MUCH WE ARE GOING TO SEE AN
INFLATIONARY BOOM AS A RESULT
OF THE PHYSICAL WORLD
REASSERTING ITSELF AND THE NEED
TO STOCKPILE RESOURCES.
THEN PRODUCTIVITY WILL
OVERWHELM THAT AND WILL
ULTIMATELY OFFSET ANY COST TO
THE OVERALL GROWTH TRAJECTORY
AS A RESULT OF THAT.
DO YOU THINK PRODUCTIVITY IS
GOING TO OFFSET SOME OF THE
INFLATION WE ARE SEEING RIGHT
NOW AND POTENTIALLY MITIGATE
THE WEAKNESS HAVE JUST BEEN
TALKING ABOUT? TIFFANY:
I THINK IT IS INTERESTING,
BECAUSE, YOU KNOW,
PRODUCTIVITY, AT LEAST IF YOU
LOOK AT THE LATE 1990'S PERIOD,
PRODUCTIVITY WAS HIGH AND WE
ALSO HAD IN THAT PERIOD
ACCELERATING UNIT LABOR COSTS
AND SOME ACCELERATION IN
INFLATION AT THE BEGINNING OF
2000, LATE 1999 PERIOD.
I THINK THERE IS DIFFERENCE NOW
RELATIVE TO THEN.
AND A BIG DIFFERENCE IS AI HAS
THE POTENTIAL TO DISPLACE
WHITE-COLLAR WORKERS, SERVICE
PROFESSIONALS WITHIN THE UNITED
STATES, WHICH IS A BIG PART OF
THE LABOR MARKET.
TO THE EXTENT YOU ARE GETTING
WAGES, REAL WAGES THAT ARE
BEING DEPRESSED BY AI AS WE GET
THAT TRANSITION PERIOD, MAYBE
BUSINESSES ARE FOCUSING FIRST
ON MANAGING COST PRESSURES,
THEY WANT TO MANAGE LABOR COST
PRESSURES IN PARTICULAR, THAT
YOU HAVE THIS DISINFLATIONARY
IMPULSE COMING FROM LABOR
MARKET AND WAGES.
THAT OFFSET SOME OF THE
INFLATIONARY IMPULSE FROM THE
BUILDOUT OF AI, OR SOME OF
THESE COMMODITY SHOCKS.
JONATHAN:
TIFFANY WILDING OF PIMCO.
THANK YOU FOR JOINING US THIS
MORNING.
REACTING TO THIS INFLATION DATA
DROPPING MOMENTS AGO.
ON HEADLINE COMING IN LINE WITH
EXPECTATIONS.
MOM OVER MONTH CPI COMING IN AT
.3%.
THE ESTIMATE IN OUR SURVEY, .3.
SHIPPING OUT FOOD AND ENERGY.
CPI COMING IN MONTH OVER MONTH
AT .2%.
LET'S GET MORE FROM MIKE RIGHT
NOW. WHAT DO YOU SAY? MIKE:
WE STILL HAVE SOME TARIFF
EFFECTS IN THESE NUMBERS.
AS WE GO THROUGH WE CAN SEE
APPAREL PRICES WERE UP 1.3%.
THERE WERE ONE OF THE SLOWEST
CATEGORIES TO START TO RISE.
MOTOR VEHICLE INSURANCE IS DOWN
.3%. LODGING AWAY FROM HOME, 1%.
HOUSEHOLD FURNISHINGS WERE UP
.3%, BUT APPLIANCES AND LAUNDRY
UP 3.1%.
IT IS AN INTERESTING ONE.
COMPUTERS WERE FLAT BUT
SOFTWARE WAS UP 6.5%.
I'M NOT SURE HOW THAT FITS INTO
THE STORY ABOUT THE SOFTWARE IS
GETTING HIT IN THE EQUITY
MARKETS AND AI, YOU HAVE A
NUMBER THERE THAT IS CONCERNING.
MEDICAL CARE SERVICES UP .5%.
SUPER COURT UP ON THE MONTH,
WHICH IS BASICALLY UNCHANGED
FROM LAST MONTH.
OVERALL IF YOU TAKE OUT ENERGY
AND THE TARIFF EFFECTS IT IS
RELATIVELY FLAT.
BUT CPI SLIGHTLY BIASED DOWN
BECAUSE OF THE GOVERNMENT
SHUTDOWN.
WE KNOW THE FED WILL BE
WATCHING WHAT WE GET ON FRIDAY
WITH THE PCE NUMBERS. JONATHAN:
VERY TRUE.
MIKE MCKEE, THANK YOU.
THIS REPORT A BIT OF A SNOOZE.
NEXT ONE WON'T BE BASED ON
THESE MOVES IN ENERGY. LISA:
CORE CPE IS GOING TO BE
IMPORTANT BECAUSE THE
INDICATORS PEOPLE ARE LOOKING
AT HAVE RE-ACCELERATED.
HOW MUCH DOES THIS PUT A LID ON
ANY POTENTIAL TO CUT RATES IF
THEY WERE CONCERNED ABOUT
NONFARM PAYROLLS THAT WAS NOT
VERY GOOD? JONATHAN:
REMEMBER WHEN THE FOCUS WAS ON
AFFORDABILITY IN JANUARY? LISA:
NOPE. I'M HAVING TROUBLE.
JONATHAN:
NOT EVEN TWO MONTHS AGO THE
FOCUS WAS ON AFFORDABILITY.
ANNMARIE:
NOW WE HAVE AN EVEN BIGGER
PROBLEM WHEN IT COMES TO
AFFORDABILITY.
IT IS STILL A MIDTERM ELECTION
YEAR.
JUST WHY A LOT OF INDIVIDUALS
THINK THERE WILL BE POLICY
RESPONSES TO THIS, BUT THERE IS
ONLY SO MUCH THIS
ADMINISTRATION CAN DO. LISA:
THAT IS WHAT JEFF IS TALKING
ABOUT.
A POLICY PRESCRIPTION COULD
LOWER PRICES TO THE EXTENT THEY
NEED.
THIS IS THE CONCERN RIGHT NOW.
JONATHAN:
GIVEN HOW MUCH HAS HAPPENED IN
THE FIRST QUARTER, A LOT CAN
CHANGE BETWEEN NOW AND NOVEMBER.
LISA:
A LOT CAN CHANGE BETWEEN NOW
AND 9:00 A.M. JONATHAN:
GOING INTO CARACAS, I THOUGHT
THAT WAS NUTS. LISA:
THAT WAS CHILD'S PLAY. ANNMARIE:
WE HAVE SEEN DECADES HAPPEN IN
JUST 24 HOUR TRADING DAYS.
IT WAS PRETTY INCREDIBLE.
BUT YOU HAVE TO THINK, THIS IS
GOING TO BE INCREDIBLY
CHALLENGING AHEAD OF NOVEMBER,
BECAUSE ALREADY WE ARE GOING
INTO PEAK DRIVING SEASON.
ALREADY IT IS THE START OF
PLANTING. JONATHAN:
WE SAW A 12-MONTH TRADING RANGE
IN A SINGLE DAY ON CRUDE.
IT IS ABSOLUTELY INSANE WHAT WE
HAVE SEEN SO FAR. LISA:
HOW MANY PEOPLE HAVE COME ON
THE SHOW AND SAID THEIR ENTIRE
CAREERS OF DECADES THEY HAVE
NEVER SEEN ANYTHING LIKE THIS.
THE LEVEL OF UNCERTAINTY, THE
LACK OF AN ABILITY TO FRAME
WITH ANY KIND OF CONVICTION ANY
POLICY RESPONSE?
THE ALGORITHMS HAVE BEEN
TRAINED TO TRADE ON LOGIC AND
NOW THEY ARE TREADING ON TWEETS
THEY CANNOT FULLY UNDERSTAND,
SO THEY DON'T KNOW WHAT TO DO
WITH THIS.
IT IS QUITE A FASCINATING
MOMENT. ANNMARIE:
TWEETS THAT ARE THEN DELETED
AND THEN NO REAL EXPLANATION
FROM THE WHITE HOUSE WITH WHY
THAT HAPPENS, AND THEN I GET
CALLS SAYING THAT PEOPLE ARE
TALKING ABOUT THE FACT THAT
THIS WHITE HOUSE WILL DO
WHATEVER IT TAKES TO MAKE SURE
OIL DOES NOT GO TO 00.
DOES THAT MEAN WE ARE GOING TO
GET RANDOM BOGUS TWEETS FROM
CABINET SECRETARIES THAT
INVOLVE THE U.S. MILITARY?
THAT INVOLVE SERVICE MEMBERS?
THEY HAVE A LOT OF EXPLAINING
TO DO. JONATHAN:
I REFLECTED ON STORY IN 2019.
MEMBER THE PRESIDENT PRETENDED
HE HAD A CALL FROM THE CHINESE.
IN THE MARKET WAS COMFORTED BY
THAT BECAUSE IT TOOK THE SIGNAL
THAT THE MARKET WAS CONCERNED
AND WAS LOOKING TO DE-ESCALATE?
YOU SAID SOMETHING IMPORTANT
EARLIER WHEN YOU TALK ABOUT
LIBERATION DAY.
AND THIS WAS ABOUT TARIFFS THE
PRESIDENT HAD THE LEVER.
HE COULD SWITCH THEM ON, SWITCH
THEM OFF.
PARTICULARLY FOR LIBERATION DAY
AND THOSE WEEKS IN APRIL THERE
WAS NOT ANY RETALIATION ANYWAY.
IT REALLY WAS ALL IN HIS HANDS.
HE COULD DICTATE WHERE THIS
MARKET WAS GOING ON ANY GIVEN
DAY. THIS IS NOT ABOUT THE U.S.
ANYMORE. IT IS ABOUT ISRAEL, WHO
ESCALATED THINGS OVER THE
WEEKEND, AND IT IS ABOUT IRAN.
WHEN WE TALK ABOUT IRAN IT IS
NOT CLEAR WHO IS RUNNING THE
SHOW.
THINGS ARE NOT STRAIGHTFORWARD.
ANNMARIE:
WE HAVE NOT SEEN FROM THE NEW
AYATOLLAH.
YOU ALSO HAVE THE IRANIAN
MILITARY SPOKESPERSON COMING
OUT, ACCORDING TO THE
SEMI-OFFICIAL NEWS AGENCY,
SAYING WE WILL NOT ALLOW A
SINGLE LEADER OF OIL TO PASS
THROUGH THE STRAIT OF HORMUZ.
WHAT YOU HAVE RIGHT NOW IS A
REGIME THAT FEELS LIKE THEY ARE
IN EXISTENTIAL CRISIS, AND YOU
MENTIONED EARLIER THIS IS NOT A
RATIONAL ACTOR.
THIS IS A SITUATION WHERE
TRUMP, IT'S GOING TO BE HARDER
TO CONTROL. JONATHAN:
YOU HAVE A PR CAMPAIGN TO BRING
DOWN ENERGY PRICES THAT YOU
HAVE TO TAKE NOTE OF.
WHAT THE SUBSTANCE AND FACTS ON
THE GROUND CONTRADICT SOME OF
THE ENTHUSIASM WE ARE SEEING
FROM THAT PR CAMPAIGN. LISA:
IT IS NOT AS EASY TO TAKE ON
AND TAKE OFF OIL SUPPLIES LIKE
IT IS TARIFFS. JONATHAN:
UP NEXT, THE CARLISLE
CO-FOUNDER DAVID RUBENSTEIN
RECAPPING THE LATEST ON
INFLATION DATA AND LOOKING AT
THE SHOCK IN THE MIDDLE EAST.
FROM NEW YORK CITY, YOU ARE
WATCHING BLOOMBERG TV.
♪
>> CENTRAL BANKS HAVE TO BE
CAREFUL BECAUSE WE ARE COMING
OFF OF A POST-PANDEMIC PERIOD
OF ELEVATED INFLATION.
WHEN YOU HAVE THOSE KINDS OF
PERIODS, EVEN IF THEY WERE A
SERIES OF WHAT SHOULD BE
TEMPORARY SHOCKS THE CENTRAL
BANK IS GOING TO WORRY ABOUT
INFLATION EXPECTATIONS
ADJUSTING HIGHER AND SOME OF
THOSE HIGHER PRICES FILTERING
INTO WAGE NEGOTIATIONS, WHICH
MAKES THINGS MORE PERSISTENT.
JONATHAN:
THAT WAS TIFFANY WILDING OF
PIMCO REACTING TO AN INFLATION
REPORT COMING IN IN LINE WITH
EXPECTATIONS FOR HEADLINE CPI
AND CORE.
THE REACTION OF THE MARKET
SHIPPING UP AS FOLLOWS.
CRUDE STILL HOLDING STEADY.
RECLAIMING A 92 HANDLE ON BRENT
CRUDE.
WE SEE EQUITIES BREAK DOWN JUST
A LITTLE BIT.
WE ARE DOWN ON THE S&P.
ON THE RUSSELL, -.8%, WITH BOND
YIELDS HIGHER ACROSS THE CURVE.
PUSHING FOUR POINT 20% ON A 10
YEAR BOND YIELD THIS MORNING
FOLLOWING THOSE MOVES IN ENERGY.
LISA:
IF YOU HAVE AN INCREASE IN
HEADLINE CPI OF COURSE WE ARE
GOING TO GET CORE PCE ON FRIDAY.
HOW CAN THE FED JUSTIFY CUTTING
RATES?
ULTIMATELY THEY CAN'T, WHICH IS
WHY WE HAVE PRICED AT A RATE
CUT POTENTIALLY ANOTHER.
JONATHAN:
FOLLOWING A REALLY WEAK
PAYROLLS PRINTS JUST A WEEK AGO.
LISA: IT IS A BAD MIX.
THIS IS THE STAGFLATIONARY TYPE
OF HEADWIND NO BROKER WANTS TO
SEE.
YOU ASKED ME IF I WANT TO BE
THE HEAD OF THE FEDERAL BANK?
I DO NOT.
I DON'T THINK ANYONE DOES, AND
I DON'T THINK THEY COULD GET
THROUGH CONGRESS ANYWAY.
ANNMARIE:
HOW ABOUT THE FACT THAT YOU'RE
GOING TO BE UNDER IMMENSE
PRESSURE FROM THIS
ADMINISTRATION?
THIS PRESIDENT HAS BEEN
JAWBONING KEVIN POWELL AND HE
PICKED KEVIN WARSH PAIRED HE
HAS BEEN TOLD HE IS A NEWFOUND
OF. LISA:
JUST SHOW UP A COUPLE OF
MEETINGS AND SAY, I DON'T KNOW,
TAKE YOUR PICK? JONATHAN:
SOMETIMES IT SEEMS THAT WAY.
NOT THIS TIME.
THE TRADING DIARY LOOKS LIKE
THIS. 10:00 A.M.
EASTERN TIME, G7 LEADERS
HOLDING A CALL ON LEASING
STRATEGIC OIL WAS HERBS.
THE PRESIDENT DELIVERING
REMARKS TOMORROW. U.S.
TRADE BALANCE AND
ANOTHER ROUND OF JOBLESS
CLAIMS. CORE PCE AND U. MICH
GOING INTO THE WEEKEND.
COMING UP TONIGHT, A
PROGRAMMING NOTE ON BLOOMBERG
TV 9:00 P.M. EASTERN TIME.
THE LATEST EPISODE OF THE DAVID
RUBENSTEIN SHOW, PEER-TO-PEER
CONVERSATIONS.
LOOKING FORWARD TO THAT THIS
EVENING.
DAVID JOINS US NOW FOR MORE.
WELCOME TO THE PROGRAM.
ANOTHER ENERGY SHOCK.
YOU LIVED THE ONE IN THE
1970'S IN WASHINGTON, D.C..
WHAT IS YOUR ASSESSMENT OF THIS
ONE? DAVID:
IT IS STILL EARLY TO SAY WHAT
THE IMPACT IS GOING TO BE.
THE CPI NUMBERS THAT CAME OUT
TODAY WERE COMFORTING, BUT THEY
DON'T REALLY TAKE INTO ACCOUNT
THE LIKELY IMPACT IS GOING TO
BE OVER THE NEXT COUPLE OF
WEEKS ON INFLATION, BECAUSE OF
THE ENERGY PRICE INCREASES WE
ARE LIKELY TO SEE.
BUT I THINK THE MARKET IS
PROBABLY GOING TO BE PLEASED
WITH NUMBERS FROM THE CPI, BUT
IT WILL NOT AFFECT THE FED ALL
THAT MUCH, BECAUSE I THINK THE
FED IS PROBABLY GOING TO SAY
THAT WE HAVE TO LOOK AT WHAT
THE ENERGY PRICES ARE DOING
OVER THE NEXT COUPLE OF DAYS
BEFORE IT MAKES ITS DECISION ON
MARCH 18, WHEN THE FOMC MEETS
AGAIN.
MY GUESS IS THAT PROBABLY YOU
WILL NOT SEE ANY RATE CUTS IN
THE MARKETS ARE SUGGESTING
THERE WILL BE NO RATE CUTS THIS
TIME, AND I THINK THAT IS
LIKELY TO BE THE CASE, BECAUSE
ENERGY PRICES ARE PROBABLY
GOING UP MORE THAN THE CPI
NUMBERS SUGGEST TODAY. JONATHAN:
THE ADMINISTRATION IS DOING ITS
BEST TO PUT HER CAP ON ENERGY
PRICES.
WE HAVE SEEN THE PR CAMPAIGN
OVER THE PAST FEW DAYS.
CLEARLY THIS IS A REAL ENERGY
SHOCK WE ARE GRAPPLING WITH.
I WONDER HOW YOU ARE FRAMING
THE DIFFERENCE AT THE MOMENT
BETWEEN HOW EQUITY MARKETS AND
EQUITY INVESTORS PERCEIVE THIS
MOMENT AND THE WAY THAT THE
STRATEGISTS ON THE GROUND AND
THE FACTS ARE PLAYING OUT?
HOW STARK IS THE CONTRAST
BETWEEN THE TWO? DAVID:
OBVIOUSLY ANY ADMINISTRATION
WANTS TO KEEP ENERGY PRICES LOW.
I WORKED IN GOVERNMENT WE
WANTED TO KEEP PRICES LOW.
IF THERE IS ANY PART OF THE
WORLD ECONOMY THAT IS NOT
ACQUIESCING TO WHAT THEY WANT,
IT IS ENERGY PRICES.
TODAY WE STILL IMPORT A
FAIRMONT OF OIL, EVEN THOUGH WE
PRODUCE A LOT OF OIL AND EXPORT
A LOT OF OIL.
STILL IMPORT OIL, AND MOST OF
THE DEVELOPED WORLD STILL
IMPORTS OIL, OR NATURAL GAS.
I THINK THE IMPACT IS LIKELY TO
BE NOT POSITIVE FOR THE
MARKETS, BECAUSE I THINK PEOPLE
ARE GOING TO BE NERVOUS THAT
UNLESS THE WAR HAS ENDED SOON
AND ENERGY PRICES STABILIZE
THERE WILL BE SOME IMPACT.
WE JUST DON'T KNOW HOW LONG THE
WAR WILL GO ON AND NO ONE CAN
SAY FOR SURE HOW LONG THAT WILL
GO ON OR HOW LONG THE
RUSSIA-UKRAINE WAR WILL GO ON.
BUT CLEARLY MARKET LEADERS ARE
NERVOUS ABOUT A WAR THAT IS
GOING TO GO ON TOO LONG.
ANNMARIE:
YOU WORKED IN THE WHITE HOUSE
UNDER THE CARTER ADMINISTRATION.
WHAT YOU EXPECT THIS
ADMINISTRATION TO DO TO
AMELIORATE CONCERNS IN AN
ELECTION YEAR? DAVID:
THAT WAS A LONG TIME AGO AND
THE WORLD HAS CHANGED A FAIR
BET, BUT GENERALLY TRYING TO
JAWBONE DOWN ENERGY PRICES
OFTEN DOESN'T WORK, TELLING
PEOPLE THEY SHOULD NOT WORRY
ABOUT IT DOES NOT OFTEN WORK.
I THINK THE TEST IS WHETHER THE
WAR IS GOING TO BE ENDED IN THE
NEAR FUTURE.
THAT IS GOING TO HAVE THE
BIGGEST IMPACT.
IF THE STRAIT OF HORMUZ ARE
BLOCKED IN THAT IS GOING TO
HAVE A BIG IMPACT.
I WOULD RECOMMEND THAT ANYBODY
IN GOVERNMENT, SHOULD RECOGNIZE
THAT YOU CANNOT JUST JAWBONE
DOWN ENERGY PRICES.
IT'S GOING TO TAKE TIME.
OBVIOUSLY WE ARE SUPPORTIVE OF
THE EFFORT TO GET THE WAR OVER
WITH AS SOON AS POSSIBLE.
EVERYBODY WANTS THAT.
THE ADMINISTRATION WANTS THAT
AS WELL.
BUT IT TAKES TIME AND TWO
PARTIES TO COME TO AN AGREEMENT
AND RIGHT NOW I'M NOT SURE
THERE IS ANY NEGOTIATIONS GOING
ON.
HOPEFULLY IT IS SOMETHING THAT
WILL RESOLVE ITSELF SOON. LISA:
IF WE WERE NOT
TALKING ABOUT OIL PRICES WE
WILL BE TALKING ABOUT JP MORGAN
MARKING DOWN PRICES AND THIS
QUESTION OF COCKROACHES AND
OTHER QUESTIONS THAT HAVE
EMERGED FROM PRIVATE CREDIT.
WONDER, IF YOU DO GET A FED ON
HOLD AND MORE FUNDING STRESS
HOW MUCH THAT ACCELERATES A
STORY THAT HAS BEEN EVOLVING IN
THE PRIVATE CREDIT SPHERE OF
STRESS, PARTICULARLY TIED TO
SOFTWARE?
DAVID: PRIVATE CREDIT IS IN GOOD
SHAPE.
A RELATIVELY SMALL PERCENTAGE
OF THEM HAVE HAD ANY DEFAULT
ISSUES.
ONLY A FEW OF THEM HAVE HAD
ISSUES AND AS A RESULT THEY
HAVE GOTTEN A LOT OF ATTENTION.
FROM THE PORTFOLIOS I HAVE SEEN
IN OUR FIRM AND OTHER PLACES I
DON'T THINK THERE IS A BIG
PROBLEM IN PRIVATE CREDIT
DEFAULT RATIOS OR THINGS LIKE
THAT.
I'M NOT THAT WORRIED ABOUT IT.
CLEARLY IF THE ECONOMY SLOWS
DOWN AND THEY GO INTO A
RECESSION, WHENEVER YOU HAVE A
RECESSION ALL ASPECTS OF AN
ECONOMY ARE NOT GOING TO BE
PRETTY. PRIVATE CREDIT WOULD BE
AFFECTED BY THAT.
AT THE MOMENT I AM NOT
PREDICTING A RECESSION.
I THINK PRIVATE CREDIT HAS
PROBABLY HAD A LITTLE MORE
ATTENTION THAN IT DESERVES.
I DON'T THINK THE PRIVATE
CREDIT PORTFOLIOS OF MOST OF
THE FIRMS ARE IN TROUBLE.
JONATHAN: DAVID RUBENSTEIN.
THE CARLYLE COFOUNDER AND
CHAIRMAN.
TUNE INTO BLOOMBERG FOR THE
LATEST EPISODE OF DAVID'S SHOW.
PRIVATE CREDIT IS DOING OK.
FROM THE MAN AT CARLISLE. LISA:
THERE ARE TWO SCHOOLS OF
THOUGHT.
ONE IS THAT IF YOU CANNOT TRADE
SOMETHING YOU CAN MARK SAVINGS
AT WHENEVER YOU WANT, WHICH IS
WHY IT IS GETTING HEADLINES
FROM JP MORGAN.
ON THE OTHER HAND THERE IS A
FEELING THAT THERE ARE A COUPLE
OF PLAYERS THAT ARE BAD ACTORS
THAT NO ONE WILL NAME, BUT THEY
ARE THE ONES THAT OUR LENDING
AND AN IMPRUDENT WAY AND THEY
ARE GOING TO GET LOAN OUT AND
IT IS GOING TO ALLOW
CONSOLIDATION AT SOME OF THE
BIGGER FIRMS. THESE ARE THE
ISSUES BEING DISCUSSED.
JONATHAN:
ALL OF THESE DIFFERENT SHOCKS.
YOU ARE RIGHT, IF WE WERE NOT
TALKING ABOUT ENERGY WE WOULD
BE TALKING ABOUT THAT.
BUT WE ARE TALKING ABOUT ENERGY.
BRENT CRUDE CLOSE TO $92, AND
FOCUSED ON WHAT COULD BE THE
BIGGEST-NEVER RELEASE OF ENERGY
RESERVES LATER ON TODAY.
THAT'S GOING TO BE THE MAIN
EVENT FOR THE TEAM HERE AT
BLOOMBERG.
COMING UP TOMORROW, KEITH
LERNER OF TRUEST, AND OHSUNG
KWON OF WELLS FARGO.
THANK YOU FOR CHOOSING
BLOOMBERG TV.
THIS WAS "BLOOMBERG
SURVEILLANCE."
♪